Transcript










Thursday night, ten 0' clock  My own darling,  We have just come from dear Wal's bedside, Sue and Ell, Clare and I,  the last time we shall ever gather around him, or rather, the last time I shall  be with them when they see him. He had been lifted out on a chair that he  might breathe easier and, oh, it seemed sweet to have anything approaching  the dear, olden times. W. seemed to feel it and his thin face brightened with  pleasure as we sat around him talking, that he might hear us, although he  was denied joining our communication, his voice being so low it is almost  impossible to hear and the effort to speak brings on dreadful fits of  coughing. You want to know what he says, darling, and I will tell you in  this letter things I have heard him saying. He takes no interest whatever in  the things of the world, his letters all remain unopened. He seems to be  always trying to wean himself off from the world. On Monday, before we  went to Philadelphia, Father and I went around to see him. Father went in  while I stayed in the next room. The doors were open and the words fell  distinctly upon my ears. Father asked him if the Savior was still precious to  him and if he trusted to him alone? "Oh, yes, I have no where else to go."  . Then, "how he appeared to him." -W. said as if God were all around and  about him." Then, in speaking of what he wished to live for, that he might  spend his life in His service, instead of the way he had lived. Oh, he talked  so sweetly to Father about it and enjoyed his being with him so much, asked  him to pray twice with him, then I went in to say goodbye. With tearful eyes  and a swelling heart, fearing I might never see him alive on earth. I sat on  his bed and he took my hand and asked me if I had told you he was going to  die. I said I had told you the doctor thought it impossible for him to live.  He said, well, write to her and tell her I am going to die, there is not even a  hope. I told him how distressed you were about his sickness and hearing he  could not live, he said, "poor girl, poor girl, tell her the separation will only  be for a few years." You and she have done me a great deal of good, you  have been very kind to me. I said you had asked me if he ever spoke of you  or thought of you. I never can forget the expression of his countenance when  I told him that. "Thought of her, why she is before me always, never, never  out of my thoughts." I asked him ifhe could receive Christ at his Passion.  He said, oh, yes, I am so much happier,_ but do you.think we can be quite  -sure. I am glad to -have him not too confident. There are few who die in the  full assurance of faith, but oh, I do hope he may be sustained until the end.  He asked Father if so great a Savior as he could have mercy seems to have
deep conviction of sin and to trust fully in Christ. He told Sue Bucher when  she said to him, he was going to leave them alone and we could never love  anyone so well, "No, you are leaving me, it is I who go alone, alone." Poor  Sue, her heart is too full to speak to anyone. She came up to my room this  evening and we put our arms around each other and cried as if our hearts  would break. You never saw anything like his mother and Sue, bearing for  each other's sake, each is afaid to show the other what she feels. Sue says it  is a continual occupation. Her mother and Will and she, all trying to hide  what each feels. Only once have I seen Sue give way. This evening, I went  to see Will, found him asleep. Sue and I had a long talk and oh, she burst  out crying, which I encouraged, for I know it must be a relief. Oh, she is the  noblest woman I ever saw, is suffering constantly with rheumatism and  never complains. Dear Sue, she will not be long in following him, I am  afraid. Aunt Maria said he might have died in Cuba or on that journey. She  cannot be too thankful that she has the privilege of nursing him and having  him prepare for heaven. Their comfort is in his hope of heaven and meeting  him there. Oh, this Christian religion, blessed, blessed belief. What would  we do if our friends would die without it? Then we might be comfortless,  never to see them more and have them endure. Oh, the thought is agonizing,  but to have them taken from this into ever a lasting glory, why should we so  &lt;selfIShly mourn? My own .darling, I am glad to see you take such a sweet  Christian view of it. Oh, if I could be resigned. When the parting is over,  perhaps I may, but that dreadful parting to come so soon hangs over me.  Tomorrow, I must go. It would be wrong for me to stay when duty calls so  strongly, but oh, if I might be permitted to stay and watch with them till the  end. Mother is depending upon me to ? about and help make Ellie clothes  and they have been as kind and indulgent to me all winter, I could not think  of it and as we will all have soon to part with him it cannot be much worse  another time. Oh, Nannnie, how can I do it? When I went to Philadelphia  on Monday, it was hard. I cried all the way down and when at the St.  Lawrence, every spot reminded me of last summer, the chair he sat in when  he was so weary, the very table, the same? on ? it was too much. Mr.  Campbell sat at our table and in inquiring very sweetly about Will, he said to  me, "Was he not engaged to Annie Baker of your country?" You may  imagine how I felt, but I never controlled myself better when I answered no.  I could neither sleep nor eat at the St. Lawrence and our shopping seemed a  hollow mockery, but darling, it is wrong for me to make you thus sad with  :« my own feelings, you have your own burden to bear and instead of  lightening it, I am making it greater. I will soon be able to look more  peacefully at it. Irideed, what you said to W. last night, he looked comforted
and happy, although he could not speak. On Monday, he told me "he would  liked to have seen you once more." and told me to tell you the separation  would only be a few years to him, as to all dying, even a lifetime seems as  nothing compared with eternity. He told me to give you a book after he was  gone, but the weakness c, oming on, he could not tell me then what it was.  He seems perfectly composed and resigned in view of his great change, has  attended to all his earthly affairs and seems now waiting to depart. Oh, "to  be with Christ, is it not far better?" Do not grieve, darling, it will be an  incentive for me to follow. Oh, if we only reach the home at last. I felt  when I sat there as if I could thankfully exchange places with him, he so  much needed and life so useless and vain, but God knows what is best. Oh,  Nannie, in looking over this letter I see nothing but selfishness, selfish  sorrow. You will pardon me, darling, for not trying to comfort you more. I  have received three of your letters at the table. In opening them I am forced  to leave the table, I cannot control myself. The tears will flow. Oh, my  heavy, heavy heart. I never felt such a night of sorrow. Dear, dear Nannie, I  am so sorry for you. I? so about the bursting springtime, it almost breaks  my heart. I can understand your going? walking in the garden. iIt seems to  me can never smile again or take an interest in anything. Sue Bucher's tears  area constantly falling silently and sadly she weeps. She never felt resigned  uhtiftWo days ago. Slie was with them all day afAunt Maria's . . I gave her  your message and she could not speak a word. She loves you, oh, how she  does. But I must stop. I have so many things to get ready and pack before I  go home. My only comfort is in writing to you and sitting with Sue B. Oh,  Clare thanks you again and again for the lovely present. She was perfectly  surprised and delighted. Says she will never admire anything earthly again.  She thanks you again and again, wiJI write as soon as her eyes will permit.  Indeed, they are very little better, are as painful and prominent. If she  cannot write to me I don't know what I will do. Oh, to go away and leave  Will forever, forever. Oh, can I bear to part, but I will not, must not talk  thus. Poor, dear Nannie, you have had your trials. How I hope your poor  Ma is well. Duly we will pray for each other and to be sweet and resigned to  God's will. And we will love each other more and cling more closely  toChrist, our Savior for comfort, and oh, let us be more careful in our walk  as Christians. I send you a sweet kiss, darling, and my own deep sympathy  and love. Clare sends her warm love and ? a sweet kiss. Clare will write to  you after I am gone. This is the last letter you will have from H. I ? such a  sad one. Your loving,  Annie






Dear, dear Nannie,  Monday morning  AP(Lll , I ~l, 0  I am up early to write you a line as I am going to Philadelphia at noon  with father. Nothing could induce me to leave just now but Father's urgent  request and my knowing that it is my duty to go and help him in the  shopping. Poor, dear Will is so much worse. For the last two nights, I've  sobbed myself to sleep and the tears are even in my eyes and the burden  heavy on my heart. Oh, Nannie, Nannie, he is even very soon to leave us and  when I think of the separation of bidding farewell forever, nothing can ? ply  sorrow. Oh, dear, dear Will, how I love him and you, poor darling. It is far,  far harder. I do not pour out here my sorrow for fear of distressing you. Sue  Bucher cries all the time and his poor, poor heart-broken Mother and sister.  Oh, could there be anything so distressing, but yours, darling, I think, harder  than all to bear silently and alone. I must tell you one thing for your comfort  which will, I hope, comfort you as it has me. I went to see Will on Friday.  The others were with me but after they went back, I slipped back and told  Will you sent your love to him and how sorry you were for him. In his faint  whisper (he cannot articulate now), he said, "Poor girl, I would like to see  her once more before I die, but one thing you will know for your satisfaction,  that you and she have been greatly instrumental in making me a Christian."  Dear Will, I could have clasped him in_my arms. Oh, it was such a good  opportunity to cry more, but Nannie, I could only bury my face in my muff  and my lips were tight closed and my eyes streaming. I knew I distressed  him. He leaned over and kissed me and I left the room, sorry that I could not  have said more, but I must have some more words before I leave. Oh,  Nannie, it will break my heart to go home, but I'm selfish. He also said,  "Poor Annie, I am sorry for her. Maybe, maybe I will not die." But since  that, he has given up the faintest hope of getting better. He was so glad to see  Father, asked him twice to pray with him and talked with him two hours  yesterday. Father says he gives every evidence of a ripeness for Heaven.  One question which I very well understand and which you will understand .  . "Do you think it wrong to have earthly attachments, to be unable to forget  them?" That made me cry more than ~!1 for I knew so well what it meant.  His love for you, my darling. Poor, dear Will, I can hardly write for the tears.
Oh, is he not too lovely, never, never murmurs and his sufferings are intense.  The skin is now off his body and it is agony for him to lie on it, but when  they speak to him about it, he says, "God is very kind to me, He means I  shall bear this alone, for my good." Doctor is so kind and gentle with him  and Will appreciates it so gratefully. Every night he bathes him with  "aronica" and bandages his limbs. It requires two hours to prepare him for  bed. Dear Nannie, I could write and write on this dear, sad subject, but I will  have to send you just this today. Oh, do be comforted in knowing that he will  be in a far more beautiful home, where there is no suffering or death, and,  Nannie, I want to tell you, if you want to send any message to him or tell him  anything, write to me, that I may get it on Wednesday. I will only be away  two days, not a moment more than we can do the shopping. He seems to be  so comforted in hearing from you and that you love him and you know there  can be no harm in your telling him now and if you would want to write me  something that I might read him, no human being would know it, but just W.  and I, and it might be a comfort to both of you. Oh, my own darling, I am so  sorry for you. If I could only have my arms around you, it would comfort us  both. My own heart is almost breaking. I cannot bear to go even to  Philadelphia and oh, if I have to go home on Saturday and never see him  more. Nannie, Nannie, the great clouds of sorrow. Oh, I cannot bear it all.  Dear, dear W. Sue Bucher's heart is almost broken and Clare. Oh, how we  all do love him. That precious picture of mine. He sent his love to you,  darling. I must see him once more. I wish I could save him. Oh, if my arms  were around W. The Saviour will take W. to a happier home, blessed far in  Christ Jesus. Nannie, darling, think of me with my arms around your neck,  kissing your tears away. How I cling to you, darling, and love you more and  more. Your own, poor Annie. Remember, write by Wednesday. I will be  home, I think. Your own, Annie. Oh, your W. loves you, dear. The earthly  attachment is strong, as is yours. I spoke to Ned last night in church, but I  can think of nothing but W.  Box #442  q&. 'JO, .JdJ ,CtJ d
A PML, 1860  Dearest Annie,  I have been here all night and now I write this, with John Johnson writing dispatches to  the friends at the other side of the table. Be comforted, darling, as we are - it was a precious  deathbed and we should all rejoice. Sue Lawrence sends her love to you. I told her I was  writing. Oh, if you could see her calm, sweet face. May the Lord keep you and bless you and  gjve you comfort. Write to me soon. Know, dear Nannie, your letter will do so much for me.  Forgive:!"l1~ in have been selfish in my grief I have just looked on the dear, calm face, still in  death, I will give your parting kiss and farewell. Your own Nannie. I expect to get home  Wednesdayevcnitl2. I win write wore fully again. I think I see your anguish when these sad  lines reach your eyes, but do be comforted in hearing he is so happy. Do not grieve, as he said  to me, it will only be for a few years. We will strive to meet him in heaven, Your own,  loving, Nannie.  Box #442  qr,. ,.;O . ; i  .... / ~ .. ~. )I • _, /l n







My dearest Annie,  April 12, 1860  Thursday evening  I am glad to have before me an hour of sweet rest and quiet with you, my poor darling. Your letter  made me cry, for there was in it such a sad hopelessness. Nothing that I or anyone could help you in.  Oh, Nannie, why are we so wedded to frail humanity? I have felt in the last two weeks that nothing  could be dearer to me than poor W., so sick and helpless and so soon to pass away, and oh, I feel that it  will tear my very heart strings when that time, so surely and swiftly coming, arrives. I am glad you  loved him, Nannie, for you could not do less and who knows but his love for you may have been his  salvation now. I mean, of course, the means under God. I have not seen him since last Saturday. I will  tell him you sent your love, if! have an opportunity. It will please him. Each day, we hear from  Doctor how he is and each day he grows weaker and weaker. He asked Dr. this afternoon if he really  thought he would die. Doctor could not deceive him and told him the truth. Then he asked, "How  soon?" Dr. said it might be very soon and poor Will. Oh, Nannie, is it not hard? Dear, dear Will.  How I have loved him. How I do love him. It is too much. I cannot bear it. But, oh, it's shameful for  me to give way there. These blinding tears, when you, poor darling, are suffering, too, and must  conceal your grief. Oh, why should we grieve - a redeemed spirit gone to its home - beautiful home,  where there is no sadness or parting. But I cannot comfort you or myself tonight. I will not talk any  more of this tonight. I will tell you how he is in the morning. I am sitting in the office in the new  house, striving in vain to feel at home. As I told you before, the very Fates seemed against our moving.  This is Thursday evening and we are not yet entirely fixed up. If it rained at Alleghany Monday,  Tuesday and Wednesday as it did here, you will have some idea of what we had to contend with. As  carpets can only be cleaned on the river bank and as it was too wet entirely to trust them there, we just  had to wait and sitting with folded hands on uncarpeted floors is not the pleasantest thing in the world.  They are nearly all in their respective places now, though, and I'm right glad. The parlor is very  pleasant and cozy and the whole house right comfortable. Mary Wilson and I have been exchanging  friendly words across the street. She is helping fix up Mrs. Burnside's house just opposite. This is a  very pleasant neighborhood, the pleasantest in town, I think. Camerons, Londons, Crisnells,  Lambertons, Flemings. The old houses across the street are being tom down and the new ones will  soon be up, but it makes me sad, for the pleasant arrangement of the occupants will all be frustrated.  Will was to have one, you know. Clare and Crisnells and Mother and now, poor Will. Oh, I cannot  think of anything else. Doctor has just come in from bandaging his limbs, that dreadful rheumatism.  Dr. says he is so thin that he can enclose his arm between his thumb and finger and he is so tired lying  in one position. He cannot get the least relief. He wants Doctor with him all the time, seems to cling to  him, cannot bear to let him go. I am ever obliged to go home. Johnson is nursing W. now. Johnson,  Sue L. and I were over in the country at the funeral of Uncle George's youngest child on Saturday. It  poured and rained, but we had a close carriage and did not mind it in the least. How the trees are  budding and how green and beautiful the fields. We have to go out in the country to know that spring  is coming. Johnson read to us the prettiest little poem I ever heard in my life in the carriage. It was  Lowell's "Sir Launfan." I suppose you must have seen it, as it has great celebrity. A lady gave it him  and I know it was Josephine. How I tease him about her. Johnson's mind is just full of pretty things  and I like him for it! 'It elevates and a mind must be high-toned that really delights in and enjoys those  beautiful things. I am glad you told me so much Lawrenceville news. It is always pleasant to hear  from them. I had quite-a pleasant conversation with one of the graduates the other day, Bella Hop,
cousin of Will Hop, the gentleman I told you about. She lives here and is a nice girl. I am so glad  Carrie McLelland is better. Is it not strange that the physicians should differ so? If only poor W. were  better or if we could be mistaken about him. Dear Nannie, let us pray and pray. Oh, my heart is so full  of sorrow for you, his poor Mother, sister, myself I can hardly bear it all. Father is coming tomorrow,  will spend Sunday with us, go on to Philadelphia on Monday. Oh, won't I be glad to see him, dear  Father. Clare sends a great deal oflove to you. I am sorry I cannot write more this time. Will write  early next week, darling. I am so tired, putting down carpets, fixing up, etc. Give my love to all. Here  is some of Brown's skillful drawing. He spent an evening here this week and left this with me. Isn't it  cute? I kind of expect another letter from you this week. Shall I be disappointed? Your own, loving,  Annie.  Box #442  q (;; . 3 {) , ;):) I . /";~) ~









1860  Harrisburg  Sunday Eve  April 22,  My own darling,  "All is ended now, the hope, the fear, the sorrow." The trembling spirit has ascended to its  divine home and all that is left us is the dear form which will soon, too, be taken from our  sight, laid in the grave, the cold, dark grave. Oh, my own Nannie, can I write it? W. is dead,  dead! Our dear, dear Will. Lo, I write it. Oh, how can I give you such pain and how can I  comfort you when my own heart is so nigh bursting? The very depths of my soul are weary in  having to tell you the sad, sad news and in reliving it myself. Take comfort, darling, when I  tell you of the glorious deathbed scene. Oh, that I were near you, with my arms around your  neck, that we might sob out our grief and thus comfort each other. I gaze and gaze on the dear  form, so cold and silent in death, and wonder, can it be? Will those eyes never again brighten,  those lips never mine love. Oh, my blinding tears, my breaking heart. I will never again love  any thing or human. Oh, I cannot think or see. It is too much. When I come to write to you,  my grief outpours. I cannot restrain it and it is very sinful and selfish in me. Forgive me.  You know, dear Nannie, and do be comforted when you read how gloriously a Christian can  die. The dear theme of all our correspondence, our intercourse for years - "W., oh, W." Ever  since I wrote you, he had been getting worse and worse. I will not tell you of the suffering,  but last night Father said he was going around to see him and asked me in would go along. I  intended going-later, but determined to go then. When we went into the house;-W. wanted-to  see me, and I, presuming he wanted to talk to Father, did not go upstairs. He exclaimed at  once, "Where's Annie?" I then went in and putting both arms around me, he kissed me again  and again - on my cheek, mouth, my forehead and neck and then said to me, "Oh, Annie, I  know you love me, but I don't want you to grieve. It is natural you should be sorry, but do  not grieve for me. It is all right." Oh, yes," I said, when I could speak. "You will be far  happier, happy in heaven." "Yes," he said, "I hope so, but I guess it is natural to doubt." I  said your trust is all in Christ Jesus. "Oh, yes," he said, "all - call your Father to pray."  Father came and such a prayer, oh, Nannie, could any but such a Christian make. He knelt, I  close at his feet on one side, Sue on the other, his mother, brother John and Johnson. We  knelt and prayed, then Sue read in a calm, sweet, unfaltering voice, his own favorite hymns.  John read sweet, comforting psalms. He asked Father to pray again and his brother, John, and  then, the Doctor coming in, he said, "Doctor, how long yet?" and feeling his own pulse, he  said, "It will soon all be over," asked John to feel his feet, ifthey were growing cold, sat up in  his chair and looked at us all around, called Johnson to him, and taking both his hands in his,  begged him to seek his Saviour now, to be a Christian, left messages for Sam and Jim, put his  arms around his Mother's neck, kissed her and begged her to go and lie down. He would not  die for two or three hours yet. His solicitude for her was his greatest grief, always. When  Father talked to him so comfortingly, oh, the sweet Scripture words - and W. seemed so  happy. He said, "I am so happy and ready and anxious - satisfied to go." In reply to a  question, he said, "God is with me. I am not afraid." Seeme~ to be pray(ng cODstantly. I held  his hand in mine when it was growing cold in death, his lips mUrmuring prayers and oh, I  watched the fleeting breath and with the last,"Lord Jesus, receive my spirit," the soul took its
flight to grandeur. Oh, mystery, mystery. Nannie, how I thought of you and prayed for you  and us, both resolved that we would strive to meet him there more than we have ever yet  done. Now we grieve and murmur that he is now a shining angel, one of God's own  ransomed ones. oh, happy release. Ten weeks of wretched suffering in this sinful world,  translated to bliss, perfect and full. Oh, who would not exchange places with him? I feel as I  have never yet done, the vanity of all the world, and a stronger desire to be one of God's  children and oh, can it help impressing others? Doctor and Will Dock sat up with him Friday  night and the whole night long. He was praying for them, his other friends and himself. He  told W. Dock to kneel at his side and oh, how he prayed for him. Will Dock cried like a child,  as ifhis heart would break, and oh, Johnson and Brown. Nannie, he never missed an  opportunity of speaking to one of them about his soul, never would let one man go out of the  room without it. That, to me, is the very strongest evidence of conversion - solicitude for  others, but oh, I am writing about this and just holding my bosom to restrain my grief. At half  past eleven, he died. He always thought it would be at midnight and all the evening kept  asking what time it was. Just think of the brightness of his mind and the fortitude - watching  for the hour - moment of his death. There never was greater heroism. He slept away as gently  as a child would go to sleep - with those words, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit." Oh, I need  not tell you of the grief of his poor mother and sister. I slept with Sue last night, stayed with  them through it all. No other one was there but those I have mentioned around his dying bed.  Poor Sue Bucher is almost breaking her heart. Oh, I never saw anyone so crushed down. She  had not seen him since the evening we all sat around him - Thursday. It rained and thundered  so terribly during it all. We did not think of sending for her and she cannot be reconciled at  having not one last word or message from her best earthly friend. W. was trying to wean  himselfoff from worldly things. When I came in, he said, "Oh, I am afraid I will not see the  girls." (said at once I would"'go-sencffor-inem: He said, "No, 00 not. The exertion of saying  goodbye to them would kill me at once." Dear, precious Will. I can never be thankful enough  to a kind Providence for permitting me to have such a privilege and such comfort in his dying  words. Just think how merciful it was. I expected, as I told you, to be home and my great  sorrow was at having to leave so and part with him forever. A misunderstanding about  meeting Father prevented me from going yesterday and I was graciously permitted to see the  end of all, even though the saddest thing on earth, yet grateful and pleasant to think of. I  cannot get over it. We were all shocked at the suddenness, except Doctor, and even he  thought he might live one day more. Aunt Maria's and Sue's very emotion is too beautiful.  His mother said, "closing his eyes to open them in heaven, the happiest Sabbath he has ever  yet spent." Sue is the noblest girl I ever met. I will stay until Wednesday, after the funeral,  which will be at ten o'clock, then wend my sad way homeward, full of thoughts of what has  been. Oh, my sad, sad heart. Father is obliged to go tomorrow. Poor Sam is not here and  may not be in time to see him. The whole town seems mourning him. The pure, noble Will.  I never saw such expressions of interest and attachment. How happy we should all be at his  release, yet how selfishly we grieve and mourn. Oh, his first Sabbath in heaven, this day.  What is all earthly pleasure of fame or honor to that?  Aunt Maria's, Monday morning,













My poor, poor Nannie,  Home  Wednesday night  April 25, 1860  I cannot go to bed tonight, although sick and weary and miserable, without one word to  you. My heart is just breaking with sorrow for you in your desolation. My tears never cease  dropping. Oh, those letters, those letters. Darling Nannie, did you love him so? I know it. I  know it and what can I say in your wretched grief to comfort you, poor darling? IfIjust had  my arms around you tonight and oh, Nannie, you must come down. Come, do come, and I  will tell you all and you will rejoice in the glorious triumphant deathbed of the Christian and  see through your blinding, bitter tears, God's mercy. All I can say to you of Christian  comfort, you know it is natural to weep and we must weep to relieve our hearts or they would  break. I've wept whole days and whole nights since, silently and alone and with the mourning  friends. I've knelt and wept at the vacant bedside. I've knelt and wept over the dear, cold  form, as I stole in while others were sleeping and prayed. Oh, how I have prayed for  resignation and comfort for you and for myself I've wept till I thought the fountains were  dry, but these letters show me there is still some. Oh, the silent, hopeless sorrow in their  pages. Darling Nannie, how can I comfort you? I knew I wrote selfishly. I knew I should  have restrained my grief when yours was so much greater. Do, do forgive me. Yet I ought to  be satisfied, for no one had such privileges as 1. Nannie, do not grieve that these were  undying words to you. Oh, if you had seen the look he gave me a few days before, when I  told him you wondered if he ever thought of you. If you had seen that look. I shall never,  never forget it. "Thought of her! Why, there's not been an hour since I've been lying here  and for years, except perhaps those of intense suffering, but she is there, she's always before  my eyes. Tell her not to grieve, poor girl. The separation will only be for a few years. I want  you to give her a book. Pick up one of those downstairs." He could not think what just then.  Again he said, "Poor Annie. Does any know of her love for me?" I said no. He said "she  ought to tell her Mother. Tell her to tell her Mother. You and she will have this for your  consolation, that you have been the great means of making me a Christian, under God. Of  course I love you." Oh, Nannie, it ebbed out with his life. He loved you to the end. I could  see it in his eye when following me. I felt it in the kisses he gave me. Oh, those dying kisses.  Can I ever forget them? They will linger there always - on my forehead, cheek, neck and  mouth. There was love for you mingled with them. I looked for you, thought for you, prayed  for you and the words I have told you were dying words. He was dying when he gave them -  for a whole week. His life was just ebbing away. Those were the last of all concerning his  friends. He did not say farewell to any of his friends - wanted the Doctor to tell him just when  he was dying that he might, but he was composing himself so gently and praying so fervently  that they could not disturb him and he passed so peacefully and calmly into his rest that we  could scarcely tell when the spirit had departed. Oh, can you not imagine angels receiving  that spirit and bearing it to our Lord as the words "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit" fell on our  ears, the last we heard on earth? Darling, should we now - ought we to grieve when this  . transition was so glorious? Ob, if we can b~t meet him where he is. Will it not be our duty to  strive faithfully to meet him there? Nannie, this morning, I bade him for you a last farewell.  Here on the comer of the page I press my lips which were this day pressed on the pale, noble
brow for you. A sweet smile lingered on the countenance, expressing perfect happiness and  peace and oh, that radiant countenance in dying. He was beautiful in death. Those hands, so  beautiful in life. Oh, there could be nothing on earth more lovely. White as the snows which  are this night lying on his bosom, pliable and soft as in life. There was no rigidity about his  frame. Sue Bucher and I hung over it for hours and hours. We would look until we almost  imagined he was starting into life. We gazed and gazed and hung over him and wept and said,  oh, if dear, dear Annie could only be with us - time after time. Oh, our farewell of him was  sad, sad. To think it was only this morning. It was a sad thing to see the coffin on its silver  plate inscribed, "Wm. C. A. Lawrence. Died April 21 S\ 1860. Aged 27 years, 11 months and  8 days." And oh, to see his sister hang over him and feel his hands and face, his breast, and  say, "So young, so young. Oh, is it not hard to lay him in the cold grave? If we could only  keep him always with us, even there," in her calm, sweet voice, her tearless eyes and pale,  sweet face subdued in Christian resignation. Dear Sue, I'm afraid she will not be very long in  following. She seems too good and pure for this sinful earth already. The silence of my grief  was often reproved by her. Nannie, she gave me W.' s "Evangeline" for you. You could have  nothing he loved more or gazed more upon. It is sweet and beautiful. I know you will like it.  W. told his mother all about his love for you. They know it and have known it for a long  time. Aunt Maria told me one of those nights I spent with them, when W. 's dear body was  lying in the next room, in recalling the incidents of his life, she said, "Poor Annie Baker, she  will feel this too." He told her all about it and she and Sue know how it was and Sue asked  me what you would like ofW. 's, beside the book. I told her "Evangeline" and there was a  little book which seems much worn, as if he had liked it, called "The Angel World" by Bailey,  which seemed most appropriate of all that were there. I got that for you, darling. Sue said  again and again, "if Will had only mentioned the book." Sue Bucher would give anything she  hastn this world if W. had· only given her some little· thing, the most trifling, but he never did  or could make the least arrangement in view of death, for fear of disturbing his mother. Oh,  Sue Bucher regrets and weeps that she had not an opportunity of saying something to him.  She cannot get over it. I ought to be satisfied with his dying words, but my heart craves more,  too. About those daguerrotypes. When W. went to Cuba, he left them with Sue Bucher, for  he feared he might not get back and they would not be safe. She has them now, and she told  me this morning she would give me the one that belonged to me, but the other one she would  keep. No doubt she would give it to you, though, if you would ask her, dear. I had made an  arrangement to get one ofthose~ photographs for you, but Sue Bucher told me this morning, if  I would let her, she would like to send you that herself - photographs ofW., like the one I  have, but my darling, I must say goodnight, it is almost one o'clock. Dear Will's first night in  the silent churchyard, but his fifth night, if there is a measure of days, in glory. I think of him  quietly and placidly just now. It is only our own great loss we so bitterly weep. God bless  you and keep you, my own precious one, in his tender love and mercy. Your own Annie.  Thursday morning. My own, dear Nannie,  I know we awoke with the same oppressive burden on each of our hearts. I've been  roaming over the house all the morning, trying to seek something to content me, but wherever  I go, the past comes up. I have not ventlJ-ted in the parlor, except for a moment, and then, his  portrait meeting my eyes. Oh, the sorrow. I closed the door and walked away and will leave  that room until kind time helps to soothe the grief. It is too recent to venture in that room,
which contains nothing but what is associated with him. Oh, every place I turn. I opened my  portfolio this morning to get this paper and there are letters addressed to him and those he had  written me. Those precious letters, how I shall prize them now. Here is the room he slept in,  the bed, the brush he used, the writing on the walls. Oh, everything, everything. I cannot  bear it. The tree over the river where he wrote his name. The green banks of the river, the  graveyard. Oh. I wish I was up with you, but it is wrong and sinful and again I ask you to  fottive me. I intertO\Xl this as a co~fort to you and how I fail. It is pleasant to be home again  and far better to be away trt;,m the scene of such sorrow as I left behind me, and oh, to have  them so glad to see me here. I will never forget dear Mot.her's greeting of affection. She  clasped me in her arms and burst into tears. She was 'So happy and had been afraid she would  never see me, I lingered so long. All the friends came gathering in, but oh, it was so hard to  tell them all about W. When that question came, oh, my heart. He had so many friends  everywhere. There never were such manifestations of grief before in Harrisburg, or words of  respect and esteem, as while he was lying dead and at his funeral. I will tell you all about it  again. We can think of nothing more now but our own love for him and our own loss. Such  things will be gratifying after while, but just now it seems as if the sorrow could never be  assuaged. Poor Sam could not be comforted. He came too late. Oh, what would he not give  to have had some parting words. When the telegraphic message arrived, he was very ill with  bilious fever. He got up at once from his bed and rode all night and all day for three days, but  came, at last, too late to see him living, and you never saw such grief His brother, James, too,  got home about two hours before the funeral. W. left a message for them "to be kind to their  mother and Sue and to be Christians." The former advice could not add to their kindness, I  am sure, for there never was greater devotion to a mother and sister. Sam idolized Sue, as I  told you before, and oh, but W. was kind to them. They all took me to their hearts as one of  ~J1e family, for they knew how W. loved me, and how I was with him, there, in the last sad  scene. Johnson, too, seemed to cling to me, and in parting yesterday, I told him never to  forget those parting words. With the greatest emotion, he said, "No, no." Dear Johnson. I  hope he will regard them now and Brown and W. Dock, whom he so faithfully warned. Oh,  how impressed they seem, but Doctor Charlton misses him more than any of them. Nannie,  did you ever see a strong man shed tears? Oh, how Doctor has buried his face in his honor  and wept for his friend. He cannot get over it. Clare would have come home with me, only  that she could not leave Doc so lonely. Oh, who does not miss him? See how selfish we all  are. Would we call him back to this dreary, wretched earth? Oh, I feel as I have never felt  before, the vanity of all earthly things. It will do us all good. Poor Sue Lawrence says she  feels that she can never go out into the world again. The sunlight and gladness blind her. It  seems a mockery. Oh, how strongly a laugh sounds. Dr. Germill and Wm. Lloyd came in  this morning and the Dr. 's arrival laugh grated harshly on my ears. It seems to me all the  world must mourn, but oh, God is good, taking him to a mansion in the skies from this sinful  earth. He had Sue read to him this hymn over and over again - "How blest the righteous" and  this psalm, in which is this verse, "Yea, though I walk through the valley" - this verse over  and over. Father held his hand and said to him, oh, such comforting things about the tender  Shepherd, the Lamb that was slain, Jesus, our Redeemer, the glorious home he was  approaching, the Father's love and the everlasting arms, everything, and W. seemed so  comforted and cheered. Oh, he gave the highest, brightest evidence of ripeness for glory and  we cannot doubt his endless, boundless happiness in Heaven. Yes, we will go to his grave  and plant something there. The last thing Clare said to me was this, "Tell Annie if she would
like to send me any little thing to plant on W.' s grave, I will attend it with tenderest care. 11  Clare knows and Sue Bucher knows what he was to you, darling, and many tears were shed by  them for you, as well as by me, in the last sad days. Oh, be comforted, my own darling, in  knowing that it was God's will and it is right. I will keep your things for you sacredly until  you come. I carried them in my arms and my bosom on my tearful journey yesterday. Oh,  sad, sad journey, but I am comforted today. My tears are not as bitter and I will try, we will  both try, to be better Christians for this. Your letters are so sweet, they almost heal my heart,  so hopeless and yet hopeful. There's a green tree by his grave. I pulled a sprig for you as we  stood there in our great sorrow, seeing the loved form lowered into the cold, silent grave. I  send it to you as it was taken at that hour and place. Sue said she would reserve for us each a  tendril of his hair. Oh, how I cried to admire its softness and beauty and how I will prize what  was part of the dear body. But I must leave you and now, Nannie, I want to ask you to come  down, even if it should be but for a day or two. Do, do come. I can comfort you. I know I  can. Olivia French is here and I leave them and go away to weep, but we could comfort each  other. I feel as if I could not leave you. My only comfort is in trying to comfort you and I  know I cannot do that. About those flowers. Mother told me to say if your Ma could have  them left in the ticket office in Altoona, Howard is coming down tomorrow or the day after  and could bring them nicely. We would write him a line to call for them. Mother and Father  both send a great, great deal of love to you, and Nannie, darling, do think about coming down,  or rather, don't think, just come. Your own sympathizing, loving Annie. If you could only  write me again on Saturday. Your letters are such a comfort. Give your Ma much love for  me. I know she will let you come down. Your own Annie.  Box #442  qt . 3() . )~ / t oj X












My dear, dear Annie,  Monday night  April 30, 1860  This seems like getting into the old train, writing you on this evening, and I will be  happy to know just when my letters are coming, that I may have the joy of expecting  them, although let them come when they may. They are so welcome and cannot be too  frequent, though I hope to be spared for many a day the bitter occasion of their  frequency. My own darling, you put me to shame in your sweet, beautiful submission to  God's will. Sometimes I feel so sad again. This wicked, rebellious heart. Oh, I cannot  bear to think of him as gone forever from our hearts. In analyzing my feelings and what  makes up my happiness from time to time, I find that a hope and expectation of W.  coming to see me and my meeting him when I would go to H., hearing from him by mail  and through Clare, made up a great, great part of my daily pleasure. How thoughts of  him have been intermingled with all our plans. Oh, how we have loved him and to think  it must all cease. Oh, it seems more than I can bear sometimes. Dear, sweet Will, how  selfish to mourn for you. Dear Nannie, do not speak of my being a comfort to you. I am  too selfish, for you don't know how I grieve and lament that he is gone. Why should we  not rejoice that he is safe in Heaven? My heart does not rebel, but oh, it is so sore and  heavy-laden, and it is only because we have lost him from our eyes. My own better  nature shows me how wrong it is, and oh, my mind is at times filled with just such  thoughts as you speak of I go around sadly and tearfully, thinking of W. in his blessed  home, and oh, I do think I have new longing for that beautiful home and my heart is  softened to everyone, my prayers more sincere. The world seems nothing to me and my  Saviour very near. I dread the old, indifferent callousness coming back, and oh, I will  pray that it may not return. All persons in sickness and affliction interest me so much,  and oh, darling, if it is possible, you are ten times nearer and dearer to me. There's a  tenderness and strength in my love for you. I tremble to think of it. It may be wrong to  love as I do. I will pray that it may not be idolatry, but oh, I cannot tell you the half of it.  When I think of you, the tears spring in my eyes. Oh, I am so, so sorry for you. Your  sweet Christian spirit, dear Nannie, won't you pray for me that I may have more of it?  Your love is so much greater than mine and yet you comfort me so. I mean, you see  God's kindness so plainly in it. Oh, won't you pray for me? Won't you excuse all this  about myself? I wanted you to know just how I felt and I have not expressed it as I  wanted, and indeed, it is impossible. But you know all, you are my dear, forgiving  Nannie. Mr. Lowrie presented such a beautiful, appropriate sermon yesterday. My heart  was comforted and I wished again and again you were here. "Blessed are they that  mourn, for they shall be comforted." He had been at his Father's three weeks and,  coming home, he found two of his church members had died and this was the occasion of  the text, and oh, it was really a sweet sermon. Dear man, there was one sorrowing heart it  touched of which he had not dreamed, I guess. In preparing the sermon, how difficult it  is to restrain grief when such things are spoken, though. But the tears I shed were not  bitter, but good for the heart. He came to me afterwards and I shall not forget the kind  words of sympathy. What a world the minister has in his little charge. Oh, the power of  human kindness. I am sitting in the parlor now, with Will's dear face looking calmly
down upon me. I can come now. I overcame it yesterday, even taking down the portrait,  covering it with kisses and pressing it to my heart. This room seems sacred and today, I  love to be here. Oh, it will all seem right after while. Time will -soothe the deepest grief,  but we will always keep this before us, our remembrance of dear W. and his example, in  his sickness and his death, will be our shining mark. S.hall we not strive to be more  . patient, enduring, humble, God-like Christians? I cannot sing the hymns, but will try to.  Yesterday, my voice failed entirely. It was through weeping, though, not from stony  grief. "Come, ye disconsolate," was one and, "Oh, those who driest the mourner's tears."  That scene of the "little pilgrim" is beautiful. I had never heard it. Thank you. It was  very sweet to me. Oh, yes, those little hymns are sweet, though they do make the tears  flow. What a blessed thing is faith. To know our friends are there and that we can meet  them. Beautiful religion. Oh, what would we do without it? Mary Wilson came to see  me twice, when I was not at home, after Will's death. I stayed at Aunt Maria's all the  time. She seemed to want me there all the time, as I was with them in the trying scene. I  did not see Mary to say good-bye. She is lovely and I became much attached to her this  winter. She seemed so sorry, when poor Will was sick. I had a few lines from Clare last  night, written with her eyes shut. They are not in the least better. She said Aunt Maria  had received great numbers of letters from W.' s personal friends, but the most beautiful  of all was Will Smith's. Oh, she said it was so touching. They loved each other with  more than ordinary love. Wm. Frick wrote, too, and Clare was surprised that he could  write such a warm, sympathizing letter. Who could have more friends than dear Will?  All the city members came up, the city council and the hotels were filled with his warm,  personal friends from all places. I will send you the paper with the funeral arrangements.  Gentlemen from Philadelphia came to the house to see him when he was lying in his  coffin, and I saw many-of them burst into tears when the dear, pale face met their eyes.  Oh, it is touching to see strong men cry. How all the firemen loved him and how they,  approaching the team, and with heads uncovered, they permitted the funeral procession to  pass through their ranks. I never saw anything so affecting. Oh, that sad day's  proceeding. The house being small, the service was at the grave, and in all that sad  throng, I am sure there were few unimpressed hearts, few who did not shed a tear to his  memory. Dear, dear Will. All the firemen's houses and the capital are draped in  mourning, the bells were tolling from early dawn, the streets lined with persons. In all  his sickness, there was not a luxury that was not sent him. Oh, if I could tell you all. His  friends seemed to sit with each other to find out and send things he would like. Sue had  letters immeasurable with kind inquiries for his health. Oh, he was beloved, but no care  or attention could cure him and God was kinder than all. How paltry and mean are all  earth's comforts compared with supreme glory and blessedness. We will feel satisfaction  after while, that he is gone. Sue Lawrence was continuously talking about her brother in  Heaven most everyday. I have so much to tell you, so many little things. I wanted you  so much to come down, but you did not say one word about it. More than anything in my  life I wanted you. Oh, how I longed for you, my own darling, and how I do still and I do  hope you will come down, yet not just now, for we have a girl making Ellie's clothes,  which have been waiting for me, and now, at the last moment, I must sew and it is agony  to sit up straight and direct things, when my heart is bleeding and my thoughts always  away off on the dear, sad theme, with which you, of course, are so nearly connected. Oh,  if I could only be with you, dear, dear Nannie. Our house is to be re-roofed this week, if
it does not rain, and will be in a state of confusion. It is perhaps better that it is so. I  would sit down and make myself miserable, most likely, and diversion is the best thing.  ? ? ? begin to understand now her sweet submission and exalted faith. I wrote to her  yesterday and thanked her for you, as you wished, for the "Evangeline." It is not half so  large as mine and is the prettiest one I have ever seen. I am glad you will like it so. Mine  is priceless to me. Thoughtful, affectionate Will. It is just one year since 4e senf it. Oh,  how little we dreamed then of what is now before us. He used to think it looked like? c.,  but not lately. He loved it because it was so beautiful and he associated it with the times  he used to come up to Alexandria and read it again and again. Oh, how I remember even  the tones of his voice in that, "Fair was she to behold." The first time I saw him is as  fresh in my memory as if it were yesterday. Clare says it is so still and quiet around at  Aunt Maria's. She can hardly bear it. They are so weighed down with grief, too. It is  after the dear form is laid in the grave that the desolation and loneliness comes on. The  girls and Clare have been over here and perhaps Clare will come up soon. Oh, Mother  wants me to thank your Ma very, very much for those nice flowers. Howard brought  them on Saturday and they were duly planted. She was very kind to send so many. I will  anxiously await my next letter. What a comfort you are to me, my precious Nannie. We  do love each other fondly, don't we, darling? Oh, you will come down. Tell me in your  next you will. We will soon be settled in our old comfortable way. Olivia and Ellie were  sure you would come this week when I told them I had written, and nothing could exceed  their joy or their disappointment when I told them you did not say one word about it.  They send ever, ever so much love. They go next Thursday a week. I must have just a  little of that hair you took from my? I remember the time so well and it will be very  precious to me. Why did not you tell me you were wearing it in your pin? I never  dreamed where it had gone. Oh, the many, many little things so important to me now.  But? my darling. I send you a kiss and oh, so much love, that this pen cannot write it.  Always, your own Annie. Oh, you would like that book "The Stone and the Angels" ?  the Presbyterian advertised so highly. We must get it.  Box #442  qt. 3D. ) ;"/. O)!.JJ






My own, dear Nannie,  Cedars  May, 1860  Monday morning  I have tried in vain to find the paper which was stored away in last week's confusion, but this  will do to tell you not to be disappointed in not getting your letter till Thursday. I cannot write  today as there is too much to do and my little charge takes all my attention. George and Mrs.  Hamill are packing away Sallie's things, sad, sorrowful task, almost heart-breaking. Oh, dear  George. Oh, Nannie, Nannie, the grief of this sorrow-stricken household. God grant that it may be  sanctified to all. It may have been sent to bring these brothers to repentance. They seem  thunderstruck, never dreaming for a moment of death entering their strong household. All were  here but Patton and Lane, who could not get round in time, and oh, the grief as we stood around that  grave and this desolate, lonely house. Poor, poor George. I cannot tell you about him, he is too  much cast down. Mrs. Hamill has been here with us ever since. She will take the children down  home where they will stay for awhile. The baby, dear, little motherless thing, is my charge, and oh,  that I may be able to fulfill my duty. Mrs. Hamill wanted to take it, but we will have it at our  house. Dear, little thing. I will write you, as soon as I get home, all the particulars - cannot now.  Your letter was sent me from home this morning. Thank you for your sweet comfort, Nannie. You  could not miss me more than I you. Through all the trying scene, how I longed for you, how glad I  was to hear you got home safely. Mr. and Mrs. Lowrie were here, inquired for you. Mr. Lowrie  visited with the church yesterday. How happy Mr. 1. must be. Oh, that these things, sorrow, may  draw us more closely to our Saviour, Jesus Christ the Lord. Dear, dear Sallie has reached her home.  Oh, that we all were more anxious to attain that home. Pray for me, Nannie. You know I pray  daily for you, darling, that God will comfort your heart. Oh, I know your sorrow. What may be  next of our friends?  Monday evening.  My own darling,  I was too much dismayed on Saturday evening after the mail had gone to find your letter had not  been sent. It was too bad and all I can say is that I am heartily sorry, for I know how you would  miss it and how badly you feel when it does not come. My own experience and your own words  have told me that. It shall not happen so apother time. I thought you would have written last week,  but was disappointed. I know I had no reason to expect another, but I did. Your letters are so much  to me and particularly now in this time of sorrow. I am sitting in my room, rocking my baby. You  should see how sweetly he sleeps and how he nestles in my bosom when awake. No person in the  world could take him from me. Mrs. Hamill wants him badly, but he is mine. I have him at night  and always. He will be a month old tomorrow. Poor, dear Sallie, how she would have loved him.  What a mysterious providence. John and Maria are good children. Sallie was such a faithful  mother. Poor George and poor children. How they will miss her watchful care. It seems to me  there never wer.e so many, many things, yet we need them all to make us less fond of earth and  more heedful of eternity. Next Sabbath is our Communion and I am glad. It will be sweet to draw  so near our blessed Saviour. I long for it and hope to be much strengthened and refreshed. I think
of you and pray for you always, darling. You come in, with the most sacred thoughts of all, this  lovely, beautiful day. Oh, I would like to walk with you now. Everything is so sweet. Clare is still  here. She may go tomorrow, perhaps not tilLThursday. Mary Scott came home Saturday, same as  ever. Sue Bucher sent me a nice package of candy, kind, thoughtful Susie. Willie is looking at me  with his blue eyes. He wants his dinner now. you would love him when you see him. Paul sends  his Auntie Baker a kiss. He is a dear little fellow. Clare will write soon. Again, I must say how  sorry I am that you had to wait so long for this poor letter. Give much love to your Pa, Ma and  Sylvester for me. Your own, Annie.  It is so beautiful here, but oh, the loneliness and desolation. It seems a mockery, all these birds and  trees and merry nature.  Box #442  qt. 3 () . ;) j ! . 0 ~., /«









May 7, 1860  My dearest Annje,  . Tceuld hardly wait till Friday. It seemed as ifmy letter would never come. A week is '  a long, long time to vtait for our only -comfort and yet 1 did not expect it. Oh, Nannie,  you are so sad and so comforting in your sadness - your precious faith. Oh, if! had some  of it. No wonder my letter failed to comfort you, leaving "a deep dOVvll terrible sadness."  I do wonder if I am a Christian. It seems to me I shouldn~ t be grieved so and mourn over  a frieoo, notillst, but happier far than he could be Dn Earth, and 1 would be more r-eady tD  apply the sweet Scripture promises, to repeat them to you and try to make you feel better.  1 will talk a little about myself and then get to something better. Your way of spending  the evening corresponds so well with mine through the day. Although never absent irom  my thoughts, the mind can be diverted a little, butoh, the evenings, the evenings. It  seems to me I cannot bear it. The warnl, soft air, the beautiful moonlight. I lie on the  sofa and live over again all the scenes in the last ten years - ten years! It is a short time to  enjoy the pleasures of manhood. Oh, that bright, short life. IIow all of it was connected  with ours. The deepest, holiest feelings of his nature, dear~ affectionate Will. J reproach  myself again and again for not trying to make him happier. I might have done it. Oh,  indeed, I might. Ten years! Why, it seems as if I had only begun to live and to him, who  had so much in life to endear him to it, how short it must have seemed. Oh, Nannie, is it  not a comfort to weep? What would we do without it? My heart would break in the  evenings. Oh, how the tears How when I lie on the sofa and think of you and dear Will at  different times - where you sat, how you 'looked, \vhat you said and did and how happy  you were, how congenial and how you might have enjoyed .life together. 100 not forget  anything now, and oh, howyou must remember. I wi it not recall any ofthem, it is too  fresha· grief. Oh, how 1 did love him. Dear, dear Will. Never to hear again the welcome  voice. What is there worth living for? It seems to me I will never again love anything  earthly. I tremble when I think how my whole happiness is bound up now in one  precious bundle. Nannie, there is no one now to share your Jove. You have it all, all,  though you so often disbelieve. Do tell me what I may do to convince YOll I am sincere.  You doubt me when I never dream it. How do I make you so unhappy? Do, do tel L r  am never for a moment conscious of any diminishing. How can I convince you ? You  have all my hcart, incapable of prompting. At Carlisle, when T was so happy with you,  oh, do not doubt me. It pains me so. It thunders this evening" How it brings up that  fearful night as T sat at dear W. 's feet, watching the shortening breath. How I recall that  affectionate, anxious look into my eyes, when one fearful crack startled in that quiet  death chamber. T know he remembered my fear by that dying glance. It was so full of  pity and love. Oh, how 1 thought and thought, how one nash might release one of us  cven sooner than the one just departing and it seemed pleasant to me to think of bearing  him company through the dark valley. 1 even felt anxious to go then. The Saviour  seemed so near. It is not always hard to die. With \V., it was but a gentle sleep - as his  mother said, c'closing his eyes on Earth, opening them in Heaven." Oh, to be done with  Earth - ready for Heaven. What could be more blissful, yet how all cling to life and dread  the last hom. It need not be so. It seems to me if 1 had not seen Will die, 1 could realize  it better It seemed so easy anctso quiet I say to myself twenty times in the day - "Will
Lawrence deadl Can it he'?" and am farther than ever from helieving it. If we could see  his grave, it would do us good. 1 \vas in about four weeks before W. 's death. He told me,  "John," his brother, "had brought the bodies of his little children down and buried them  in the cemetery and that now they "vere going to beautify their lot." It had been  purchased just a short time. It was soon to he heautified more than human art or hands  could do~ Poor w. 1 know he spent many an hour thinking of his home in the churchyard  and while he stood over his coffin in the shaded comer of the parlor, I thought he must  have imagined many a time how it would all be. Oh, how beautiful he looked on his last  pillow. It was so soft and pure. It seemed a comfortable bed and I like to see him there,  when I close my eyes, knowing how he will rise at the last day, a glorified spirit, a  sanctified body. Never shall I forget the sweet, blessed privilege of being with him in his  last hours. How I watched the lowering of that loved form into the grave. Dear Nannie, I  am not ungrateful and I never for a moment forgot how you would have been satisfied  and happy to have been there. Oh, it must be pleasant to you to know he loved you so  fondly . I can never forget the look when, in that whisper, he told me of his love for you.  It haunts me more than any other. r love to think of all these things, but it is far better to  think of him in heaven and to talk of him there, happy spirit. Oh, if we can ever gain that  home. It seems to me life will not too soon be gone. The years cannot roll too swiftly. I  think of the ,",vords of a beautiful hymn in a liHle book I have, on going to bed at night.  "One sweetly solemn thought comes to me o'er and o'er. I'm nearer my home today than  I've ever been before. Nearer my Father's house, where the many mansions be. Nearer  the great white throne, nearer the jasper sea. Nearer the bound of life, where we lay our  burdens down, nearer leaving my cross, nearer, nearing my crown. But lying darkly  between, winding down through the night, is that dim and unknown stream, which leads  at last to light." Oh, it is so pretty and I love to thin..l.c it and sing it to myself over and  oveT again. We may have long lives to live and many duties yet to do, but each day  brings us nearer home and we should pray, "Father, perfect my trust, strengthen my  feeble faith, let me feel as ifT tread the shore of the risen death, for even now my feet  may stand upon its brink. I may be nearer my home, nearer now than I think." I had a  letter from Clare on Saturday. She and Sue Bucher had been out at Will's grave. How  sincerely they mourn him. Poor Sue, she feels so desolate. W. was her greatest interest.  She I1ved for him, she told me, and oh, how she grieves. All the winter, she stayed home  because he was sick and seemed to have no other thought for anything. Will seemed  surprised when he heaTd how much we all loved him and so gratified at my satisfaction.  That is why 1 reproach myself. 1 might have told him, but what is it all now to him -  ransomed? Oh, angels might pity us here below. Nannie,1 dream so much of him. 1  dreamed that you and he were happy together last night. My first thought in the morning,  my last at night, is of you and dear W. and through the whole day. Olivia's and Ellie's  merriment grates upon my ears. I cannot bear the piano. Someday, I may go over and  see where he \Vfote his initials upon a tree the last visit, but not now, as indeed it would  be too much now. I will rejoice in being obliged to exert myself actively next week in  the housecleaning. We expect Clare on Wednesday of this week to stay a few days only  this time. You ask what is the matter with her eyes. Well, the nerve seems to be affected  and her eyes seem prominent and swollen and she cannot see. We are all alanned about  it, yet are hopeful as many others have had it this winter and are getting well. Oh, it is  dreadfuL She writes to me with her e-yes shut and onlv- a few lines. Just think what a
deprivation to hoth of us. I do hope you are hetter now, darling, do he careful of yourself.  Oh, do, do come down. We will both feel better after we have seen each other. 1 know  we will. You are so sweet and kind to me and I, so ill-deserving. You will come and  stay_ awhile with me. 1 know you will. After Clare and Ellie go, we will be so- lonely.  Mother hopes you will come. She says she longs to see your face again. T know  everything is' lovely at Alleghany now. Uncle George has the most exquisite geraniurri in  bloom now. Oh, it is too beautiful and Mother had 'a thrifty, beautiful one of the same  kind for your Ma, but it dwindled a\vay from some cause unknown and is almost dead  ~d she will, however, grow her another one and 1 know she will like it. The eighteenth  °..jfthis month is W.'s birthday. Twenty-eight years old! So young! Yours is on the  eighteenth of June, is it not? Just one month. Clare says it is so still and quiet at Aunt  Maria's. Sam cannot stay. He must go to his business and there is no one at home. How  I pity them. So lonely and desolate now. I would give anything to know where my  letters are, the ones I wrote him. You asked about them, but I cannot find out. I suppose  I could not ask Sue, when I was there, although I thought of it many times, but I suppose  he destroyed them and those he wrote you, as he arranged an his affairs with composure  before he died, making his win with fairness and fortitude. I think he must have burned  the letters. 1 will ask Sue someday. Oh, these pens are so bad. Poor Martha Martin. I  am sorry [or her and hope she is well again, but that disease lingers .on. They recover so  slowly. Pbor Eliza Goodhada serious time and all in vain, too. I pity her very much.  Sallie Porter has a son ahllost a week old. George was dovvn last week. They seemed  delighted and I am glad it is all over. Will rejoice when poor sister Mary is over her  trouble, too. I\re Sarah and Loulie coming up this summer? IIow I would love a talk  with yoursisterjust now. She is so sweet and good. T witt say goodnight now, praying  that God will keep you in his tender care this night and always, my o\vn darling. Annie.  Box ff442  qt ,, .~... O. (/j j {~. J (t .... , . \.'








My O'VIl dearest Annie,  May 25., 1860  Friday evening  This moment is the first one I have found myself free to devote to wTiting. Night and day my  hands have been occupied ever since the IP.oming of my sorrowful ride to George' s, the day after you  left. Oh, how my heart has longed for you in that time and how very, very long it seems. I "Tote you  a line on Monday, telling you that I would write again, suppose you received it In it I told you of my  having taken the little baby in my charge. This is what has occupied me so. Already, I feel the love  welling up in my hea11 for the little mother's child and it is a pleasure and happiness to me to watch  and wait upon it, even though the night is turned into day and the usually heavy eyelids are obliged to  remain open to do night watches. You would be surprised to know how wakeful I have become and  not feel complimented either that a little baby could do what you have failed in. He sleeps all day and  crics in thc night. I hope to change his tactics ancr while. Dcar, little pet, he is so round and fat and  white and is pretty and good and we all love him dearly and welcomed him with open arms into our  household. It is a long time since the wail of a baby was heard under this roof and it seems strange  and pleasant. I expect to devote my summer to him entirely, so look out for long accounts of his  progress. I wish you could see him open his blue eyes and take his milk [rom the boltIe, little darling.  He looks like his brother and his name is Will. I love him more for that, I bruess. You know how I  have wanted a baby, but oh, little did I dream of this being the way in which it would come to me!  Dear, dear Sallie. It was hard to realize in looking at the cold, still form in death that those eyelids  would never again unclose and the merry laugh would never again come from those lips. Oh,  Nannie, Nannie, is it not the saddest thing in the world? Oh, indeed it is hard. Poor, desolate George.  I cannot begin to tell you one half of our grief It was so sudden and unlooked for. She was so much  better on Sunday and seemed to be pretty well over her confinement when one ofthose dreadful,  nervous headaches which she had often, came on, and threw her into convulsions and you know the  rest Oh, it was hard for George not to have any parting words. She was unconscious all of Sunday  and Monday night. They never dreamed of her dying on Sunday and the whole family seemed just  paralyzed with the shock. Sallie, herself, being the only one who thought she would die. For months  before, she talked to George and all her fiiends about it, saying she was confident she would not  recover, made all her arrangements about their clothing and everything and would talk to the children  and tell them they would soon be motherless, etc. We tried to divert her mind from it and would not  kave her an hour at a time, but she would get despondent for three months before her sickness. It is  no unusual thing for women to think they will die at such times and they did not feel much alarmed  about it, but wasn't it dreadful? Dear Sallie. Little did T dream that she would be the next, so bright  and strong and full of life. Poor Tom is almost heartbroken. He almost idolized Sallie. He sat up  one night, the night T went up, and Tom appeared in a new character entirely in that night's  conversation, revealing to me a depth of feeling and good, strong principle 1 never thought of. llike  him better. He and George scem much imprcssed and oh, that it may be the means of bringing them  into the kingdom. He put up the things and left the house lonely and desolate on Wednesday. George  T _yon and 1v1rs. Hamill came down with us and stayed all night until yesterday evening. Mrs. Hamill  and her family were with us at George's ever since Sallie's death. 1 camlOt think how poor George  will ever go back to his house again, yet it will have to be done. He expects to have a housekeeper  and oh, won't it be hard for him to see dear Sallie's place vacant everywhere? Oh, I must not talk  about it I cannot bear it It seems like a hideous dream to me What waters of affliction we are
passing through. Dear Nannie, you were such a comfort to me. Your letter up there, how! was  \vishing you would write again this evening, though 1 could not expect it. 1 could not get this written  before. When I think of your visit, it seems as if it had been last FalL So much has been crowded in  this short time. 1 wish it was in store for me yet. That visit, oh, 11mv 1 enjoyed it. Dear, dear Nanllie,  how thankful I am and grateful f(.)f your love. It is so much to me and I feel it so in the hour of  sorrow. I have reproached myself for the way I gave way to my sorrow when you were here. I  thought I could bear it better, but oh, how weak we are. Clare came up the next evening and was up  at George's by eight next morning. She \vas so sorry she could not have seen you. 1 have the  daguerrotype for you. I know you will like it. It is not as distinct quite as the photograph, but is very  good, a beautiful little case. Susie \-vrote me a nice, kind letter full of sympathy and love, said she  would write you soon. She could not command her feelings enough to write even to me before. Dear  Will. Those eyes seem looking into mine as life-like as can be. Oh, Nannie, I know how it must  come upon you at times, that desolation. I wish I could help you. All I can do is to talk to you of  Jesus. It is the only thing that can soothe sorrow like this and the name is balm to even such t,Tfief.  Oh, do you remember last Sunday evening, how beautiful it was? I took my bOlU1cl and strayed out  over the hill beyond George's, the loveliest spot in the whole world, and sat down to think. To  describe such bitter, sad thinking, it seemed as ifmy heart must break. Dear Will, and Sallie's  sickness and death, and dear Sallie, with her bright prospects and George's high hopes in their new  home, to me made so beautiful, and their hopes of happiness in being surrounded by their ifiends, all  crushed. The poor, aching heart in the lonely home, the desolate orphan children, the sorrowing  father, weeping sisters and brothers. Oh, it was sad meditation, but the thought of Jesus calmed it all.  It is really a pleasure and delight to me now to know that our days will not be very many and may be  few. Gert Whitehill, a verj dear friend, has gone to her home, too. Em Bums, another friend,  acquaintance, too. Thus they fall, one by one, and our time may not be afar off Mrs. Zaharizer of  Huntingdon died of precisely the same cause as Sallie, nervous headache after weakened by  miscarriage. I had such a sweet letter from Sue Bucher. She is so kind to rne. The letter I had  written her was never dispatched and she wrote first. T appreciate it fully. Dear Nannie, you will  come down in June, won't you, darling, and see my baby? You know, T cannot leave home now for a  long time. I will be content to stay home and nurse him. He is such a dear, little thing, but you will  come, won't you, dear? Tt seems to me he was just given me to cheer me. T was almost insane with  grief about dear Will and Sallie and all. Oh, I wish you had your picture. I knov·, you would like it.  The very first opportunity T will send it. T would like one, too, but the photograph will do. Johnson's  photograph ca..111e and it is splendid. Dear Johnson. I have ever so much more to write, but will give  you a long one next wcek. I've been hurned so and worned that it could not have been sent sooner. T  would have written up there, but the writing things were mislaid. 1 expect one from you this evening,  for surc. With my wanncst, bcst lovc, I am your O\vn Nannic. George scnds his lovc. He is so  sorrowful, I cannot bear to see his face. Clare sends ever, ever so much love. She is going to write  you if she can see. Your OVvTI Nannie.  Box #442  CfG. ~a , J~) I,a ~}dj






My dearest Annie,  Monday afternoon  June 4, 1860  This looks like a formidable sheet, but if-it should be filled, I suppose you would  have no objection, as it is the only kind we have in the house. I am sorry you are  jealous of my poor baby, which sleeps so unconsciously in the cradle. You needn't  be, I am sure, and would not be if you could see the poor, little innocent thing, which  needs so much a mother's tenderness and care. I am sure you would think this baby  sweet, even if you don't care for them till they talk and walk. He grows so fast and  already notices our attempts to please him. My whole time is occupied, you may be  sure, but I guess it will be good for me, the exercise, as my copper color is returning  and there's more in store for me this summer, in spite of the Bedford water, but I did  not intend to commence with the baby, as you are jealous already. Not one bit of my  love shall he take from you. Of course, it is absurd to suppose he would, and if he  occupies hours which would otherwise be spent fruitlessly, it surely would be better  for me. I have longed and prayed so long for something to do, that when duty shows  me now so plainly, it would be base and wicked in me to shrink from it. I must  strive to be all a mother could be to the little child as long as it is with me. So do not  discourage me, dear Nannie. I must not think of self or pleasure apart from this baby  and I will not. We heard such a sweet sermon from Mr. McCartney this morning on  the duty of activity in the Christian life. Oh, how little any of us do for Christ, to be  the means of saving one soul would be worth a whole lifetime - the labor of it. He  had such a delightful communion season. He is an interesting preacher. Oh, such  sermons. I did enjoy them and the communion was sweet - to draw so near our  Blessed Saviour. Is it not the time to make requests? Dear Will, how I thought of  him in Heaven with Jesus, who has died for us, whose feast we were celebrating, and  oh, the prayers that we all might meet him there. Dear N annie, you must not be so  sad about dear W. Let us strive to meet him in his glorious home. Oh, to know we  can meet him, is it not worth all this gasping and struggling, even through the whole  seventy years appointed me, to be with Jesus, too, and all those who are dear to me?  What a heaven it will be. I never for a day forget dear W., his patience, his faith and  submission. Yes, I am glad, too, he is in Heaven, sure and safe, and I would not  have him back, could not, would not. Mr. Cattell preached his funeral sermon two  Sabbaths ago, or rather, a sermon, in which he spoke much ofW. and Mrs. Whitehill  - intended for both of them. The Capitol was crowded and the whole congregation  were in tears. They said it was very, very impressive and poor Sue Lawrence could  not restrain herself. She sobbed aloud. You can imagine how touching it must have  been to cause that, for there never was a creature in the world, I suppose, who
shrinks more from any public manifestation of feeling. Poor Sue and Aunt Maria -  time will be long in healing their grief. Mr. McCartney said so many beautiful,  comforting things in his sermon. I wish you could have been with me. He also  made many strong appeals to unrenewed sinners. George Lyon was ·with me and I  am glad he heard them. Our George wrote for him to come down and attend the ·  meetings, and he came, much to our surprise, attended them all, and seemed  thoughtful and impressed. Oh, may not this sad, sad affliction end in the conversion  of these precious souls yet. It must have been for some wise purpose which we  cannot see - dear Sallie, who would have thought of her in the lonely churchyard, so  soon? Maria makes many inquiries, but seems to understand. I heard a  conversation between Lillie Lowrie and her when I was there, at George's. Maria  thinks it will be so long till the resurrection. She can hardly wait to see her mother.  Lillie was so anxious about the conversion of her brother. Who could imagine that  her death would be required to make them think? Do not mention what I told you of  G. Lyon coming down to go to church. He is so reserved and sensitive. He is so  polite and gentlemanly. I like him very much. Mr. Lowrie's coming out from the  world as a Christian seems to have made them all feel the importance of it. Oh,  Nannie, you never saw a man so changed. He is lovely now. You would not be  afraid of him now, everyone remarks it. We expect Mrs. Lowrie and him down on  Wednesday if Mr. L. is able to come. They will stay all night. How rejoiced Mrs. L.  must be to know he is a Christian. I am sorry there is an uncertainty about your  sister and Loulie coming up. They would be such a comfort to you. I can  understand some of their anxiety about Miss Cornelia, you know, Clare. Oh, we had  a most alarming time with Paul last Tuesday night. He had a dreadful attack of  croup in the middle of the night. We thought every gasp would be the last one. Oh,  if you had seen poor Clare. She was almost distressed, for the doctor was in  Harrisburg and she had not the right medicine exactly, but she clung to the little  powder till the last, till they had the effect she wished and without the aid of the  other medicine, which Dr. Houtz brought when he was called in. They telegraphed  for his father at Spruce Creek in the middle of the night, but he did not get the  dispatch till ten the next morning, and when he came, Paul was better, but still very  bad. All the friends were in and we were sure he would die. He is too much an idol.  Oh, how they worship him.  Mr. Lowrie and McCartney have just been in. Mary Linnett married a pretty nice  fellow. I like him. Nannie, in our housecleaning last week, I discovered in one of  my drawers those things of yours which I had laid out on the bed, pinned on a  napkin for you to take home, the cape and gloves I brought from Harrisburg. Did  you forget them? I supposed you had them safe at home. Will send the fIrst  opportunity. Now about the picture. Shall I send it if I have a chance, or will you
visit, till you come down? I guess the latter plan will be best. You will be more  likely to come soon. Oh, I wish you would bring Mary Wilson down, but do not for  my sake. Wait for her if she is as long as she was last time. I do hope you will come  to see me this summer. You will fmd the house a little more comfortable. I never  wru,;, so rejoice4: ~ to l1av~Ut.fixed up this time. It wasjnsuch diso~det. I amvery  much obliged to you for sending for that dagguerrotype. It was too much of a  sacrifice, though. I am sorry to have had you do it. You are too kind to me, Nannie  darling. The letter was all it should be. I think she must read it now. I am glad you  let me read it. Sue Bucher sent the one of you and I assure you I was glad to get a  glimpse of it once more. I am glad dear W. had it. It makes it all the more precious  to me. I love to feel it in my hands and think how he gazed upon it and handled it.  Oh, it is precious to me now. I cannot tell whether this is an ambotype or a  dagguerrotype ofW. 'so It is very good. I wish you had it, darling. I got a little  birthday present for you when I was away and hope you will not think it is my  design or wish to "cut our love" or that I cannot raise my thoughts above knives and  such things. No, my dear, old maid of twenty-four, shocking age! I wish I could  have a birthday kiss. My next one will be twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine,  thirty! Then, well, I'll say no more. I'll devote myself to my baby and hold my  heart still, for you are married. You have my happiness, in a great measure, in your  hands, my own dear. Be careful. George sends his love to you. Those lines on  death were beautiful. I have those ofL.E.L. - they are lovely. I must send this now.  It seemed as if your last letter would never come. You owe me two sheets. That  little note was only an apology. I will be too glad to have you come see me when I  am sick, I mean, if I should get sick. You need not be fearful. You have promised  me the same thing, but I hope you will be long in wanting me to go see you - sick.  Are you well now, darling? Tell me all about yourself, what you are doing, etc. I  wore my white apron Saturday when Geo. L. was here. Did you have yours on?  Give much love to all for me and believe me your own N annie, always.  Box #442  q C . '3 () , J u I, () ,-I










My dearest Annie,  June 7, 1860  Saturday night  I feel as ifI must talk a little to YQU tonight. Sometimes, there's an oppressiv,e weight  on my heart, undefinable. Oh, I've felt it so many years and tonight it weighs me down  and I cannot relieve myself by unburdening it to you, for I cannot tell what it is. Now am  I silly or am I not, but indeed, darling, I feel so unhappy tonight, as if nobody loved me or  cared for me in the wide world. That is getting at it a little. I feel so desolate and lonely  sometimes and I hug the little baby close and wish it were mine, all, wholly mine, for it  would love me. I know it is ungrateful and you would protest it were not true, but  haven't you felt it sometimes? Dear Nannie, you are sad and sorrowful. I see it in every  line you write. You are not well, that may make it more, and it does, I know, but oh, you  are sad and you do not tell me why. You do not answer my questions about the  "shadow" coming and you do not tell me all you feel. Why is it? Am I less worthy of  your confidence than I used to be? I am so sorry you are sick. Do you take your  medicine regularly? I am drinking Bedford water now in right good earnest and imagine  it helps me already. George Lyon sent me some from the Furnace, which has no  unpleasant taste at all. It is nectar to what I have been taking. I wish you would drink it,  Nannie. It is to be taken in connection with the evidence Dr. Charlton gives. Two  tumblers before breakfast, accompanied by some bodily action - my exercise consists in  carrying Willie up and down the room and it is violent enough and oflong enough  continuance. Geo. Lyon wrote me a very nice letter accompanying the Bedford water.  You shall see it. I know you would like it. If you have anything like dyspepsia, Bedford  water would be just the thing for you. How I wish you were well again. I've heard  persons speak of the depression of spirits accompanying dyspepsia. You never "lose" me  with anything. I want to hear your catalogue of news. Truly, what is a friend for, if not  to share the woes as well as joys? Don't look forward with such dread to the winter,  darling. Something very pleasant might come to you before that and there might come a  very pleasant way of spending it. You look too far into the future. It is not right to  distrust God's goodness. I wish you could be happy as you once were. I see how much  better it would be to be cheerful, yet you know how dolorous my strain sometimes. I am  surprised as much as you at Sue Bucher. I do not understand it, but I know it is not from  any falling off of affection for you. I am confident of it. It is just her procrastination.  She treats me just so. I know she loves you very much. She has told me again and again.  Don't doubt her friendship. You ask about Harrisburg. I did not hear from Clare last  week, just because I had not one bit of time to write to her. It was shameful, too, for she  is so kind to me and uses her poor, weak eyes more than she should in writing to me and  takes such pains to tell me the least thing she thinks would interest me. Her eyes are not  any better. She says she is much discouraged, can neither see nor read, has almost ceased  complaining about them, as it is such an old story. Poor thing, I do pity her so, for  nobody used their eyes more faithfully than she did here. There is nothing new in H,  nothing of the slightest consequence. Clare did not mention the Buchers in her last. Sue  Lawrence and her brother had gone over to Uncle George's in the country to spend a  couple of weeks. There seems to be nothing new in H at all. You will be surprised to
hear of my going to the picnic on the Fourth, after all. The Stewarts came down. Han  Green came over and they all urged and urged me so to go and Father thought I had better  go, so I determined and got ready in five minutes, before the boat started. I wished  myself home many, many times. I fretted about my baby from the time we started and it  devolved upon me to entertain the nieces Stewart. It was an excessively warm' day and  there were more than an hundred and thirty persons crowded in one boat; no two  congenial. Imagine it, all sorts of people. Many enjoyed it, for there were lovers and  there were persons who like such crowds, but I felt sadly out of place. Dr. Gemmill and  Han Green seemed to enter into everything heart and soul and I envied them the power.  It seems to me I've lost all my taste for fun of such kind. Mr. Lowrie was with us and he  took long walks with the children. The Stewarts would have been wholly neglected if it  had not been for my exertions, which were exertions. Oh, how I forget. Flav Woods and  I had a real pleasant time. Flav did enjoy the picnic, I am sure he did. He is a real, nice  fellow. He talked over everybody we knew - our visit, that summer to Carlisle, etc. The  girls played a play that was much like a dance, to the music of the violin. Flav joined it  and I told him he could come up to Alexandria and dance, where he thought nobody  would hear of it, and you never saw anybody so much teased. I love to tease him. He is  so conscientious. I like him very much and so does everybody. Dan Neff from Altoona  and Mary McCormick were there and their actions greatly distressed the Stewarts. They  are said to be engaged and Kate and May are so indignant. Kate says, "anything for a  beau - girls will do anything." It was too bad. Mary McC. ought to have more sense. It  does seem too bad, too, that such a nice girl, as they say she is, should be so deceived. I  came home at night and the moonlight on the watershed dam, as we turned that point,  was the loveliest scene that I ever beheld and Leroy Wilson said in all his traveling, he  had seen nothing so pretty as that. Oh, it was too lovely, Nannie. I wish you could have  seen it, but when we came down home, we had the most dreadful thunderstorm, just  while we were in the lock. We had to remain there an hour. All those people crowded  down below without a light and the rain pouring in the hatchways. Oh, it was a doleful,  dismal hour. I was almost in despair, thought I would never get home to the baby. Han  Green came with me and stayed all night, but we were too stupid and tired to say a word  when we got to bed. I, too, was thinking all day of "four years ago." Oh, Nannie,  Nannie, what a world of changes we live in. Who can tell what four more years may  bring forth, or one year. Dear, dear Will, everything in the past is connected with him.  How the time is rolling around - four years! I had a letter from Clare this evening  (Monday). She said Aunt Maria had deposited W. 's watch and valuables with her whilst  she was in the country - precious charge. She could hardly sleep for thinking of them.  They brought her so near to dear W. Her letter was just a few hurried lines. They had a  church party on the Fourth, in the woods, and the German Reformed church had one, too,  about a mile apart. Sunday school celebrations, they were. Evan Blanchard was there  with the Camerons and a Miss Baldwin from Philadelphia. Evan was spending a week at  Mrs. Burnside' s. Mary Cameron has a son two days old. Clare said Mr. Blanchard and  Jim sang beautifully together over at Mrs. Burnside's - through the open window, she  could hear them all the time. All she said of Sue Bucher was that she was out at the  picnic with her S.S. children. They expect to dedicate their new church soon and are all  busy preparing it. Dear Nannie, I did not mean to say I did not like Mr. Clark. I did. I  guessed I did not appreciate him. I had been up nearly all of the night before with the
baby and I was sleepy and tired and the sennon seemed long. The fault was all in me­everybody  likes him and I think he is an excellent man.  I suppose Martha Martin is with you now. I am glad she will stay with you awhile.  She is such a nice little girl, I think. Who is the little Doctor she fancies and is there any '  probability of an engagement? How is Mary Smith this summer? You know she was so  desolate last summer. Did you ever find out if McCartney really proposed? Oh, Nannie,  do not forget to tell me how Mrs. Benson's health is. I feel so interested for your poor  sister's sake. Dear, little Loulie. I felt so sorry for her, about the Fourth. I could just  imagine her feelings, dear child. I wish you could see Willie laying on the bed just now,  trying to get awake, the dear pet. He does not grow very fast now, was not well all of last  week. His food does not seem to agree with him. Life is a struggle from the beginning to  the close. Dear baby, how I love him. I did not think it possible I could ever become so  much interested in anything again. Leroy Wilson and I had a long talk about matrimony  last night. He thinks parties own great risks, as there are so few opportunities of studying  character beforehand. Each party are actors throughout. He thinks a man risks as much  as a woman. I do not. For a woman, all is in her marriage. A man can seek happiness  elsewhere. He cited two or three cases of his most intimate friends who were hopelessly  miserable through their wives. Wallace Hays of Danville was one. His wife was a  daughter of Dr. Magillo, an intimate friend of Mary Blanchard's, and oh, she makes him  so unhappy. She must be like Mrs. B., from what Leroy says. L. thinks if a man is happy  unmarried, he ought to remain so and the same of a woman. I do not. I think it is all very  well to stay home while the home lasts, but it does not always last and then comes the  desolation. That would not be my motive, though, if! should ever marry. A marriage  without the whole heart's love would kill me - wouldn't it you? Leroy put me quite in  the strain. I had not thought about it for a long time. Nan Houtz, a little while before,  too, had given me her ideas on the subject. They are both, I guess, contemplating it  pretty deeply just now. George Scott came home last night with wife and three children.  Make a substitution here and imagine. Oh, Nannie, don't time bring changes? You  remember those years ago. The gathered pantaloons, etc. Geo. and Becky look well and  their children are pretty and fat and good. Did you ever read, "Ten Thousand a Year?" I  am deep in it now. It is very interesting. I am also reading one of a religious character  that is perfectly lovely, "The Last days of Jesus." Have you read it? Tell me, I ask you  again, what you are reading and doing and thinking and sensing, all about you and yours.  I am glad you like the daguerrotype so much, darling. It must be a great comfort to you.  I know it is. Dear, dear Will. I say that over and over again and there seems so much in  the words to me. What tender, darling memories we have of him. It seems dwelling in  me. I never forget. Don't forget to answer my questions this time. We have a daily mail  now and I can send my letter as usual. -Do not know how long it will last. I wrote to G.  Lyon yesterday, a letter of acknowledgment. I wish you knew him, Nannie. I am sure  you would like him, when his acquaintance would be sufficient to overcome his  diffidence. He is a real nice fellow. I like him better every time I meet him. Sallie's  death seems to have wrought a great change in him. He talks freely to me, almost freely  about it. You cannot complain of the length of this, even if it is not interesting, darling.  Give much love to all for me. Kiss dear Loulie and tell her I love her very much, and oh,  Nannie, you know how I love your own devoted, best, dearest, precious self Annie.  601&lt; ..d\:. t..j l{ d-q  b $-I.J . J.. ~. OJ-lit,










June 18, 1860  My own, dear Almie,  It seems so long since T wrote you. Tndeed,. it seemed to me T must send my letter, lest  you be home or not, but I knew that would be useless, as you said you would be away all  the week. My eyes and heart have been following you in your beautiful journey and I've  rejoiced in these calm, delightful, sunshiny days for your sake. 1 know what you are  drinking in. Just one year from next Tuesday, we started on our visit and nothing could  be more delicious or refreshing than the cool, pleasant air of those lovely June days, and  these seem much like it. I do hope you are enjoying it all, darling, but oh, traveling  brings so many hours when you must meditate. You feel alone and you must think: and it  is sad, sad thinking and oh, the past comes up. Everything in my life was dreamed over  and over again and such thoughts of the future - sorrow and happiness commingled. I  know of nothing that should give more pleasure than seeing new, beautiful places with  those we love. 1 know now that the shadow which hung over me last summer was caused  in the greater part by a sense of what was coming over poor W. I did not realize that he  was so ill, but he looked so wan and pale and weary and was so subdued, gentle and  affection-ate. It made my eyes 1ill and my heart throb to watch him, striving to restrain  everything that we might not be distressed. Oh, T can see it all now, but if we had only  kII0W11. Dear, dear Will. My heart overflows with tendemess when I think of him at all  times, in every place - through all the past summer and winter and spring and now in  IIeaven. Oh, why do we ever think of him as on earth? Why can we not always see him  ransomed with the glory ofthe Father and the holy angels, himself a white-robed angel,  free fmm all those sufferings which he had on earth? How it should. quicken our desires  and efforts to be with him, but oh, Nannie darling, do not talk about the times, of our time  being short You have in some of your letters said as much to me, and I did not notice it  T could not, indeed, T cannot, bear it. Do not, darling. It may be God's wiH to spare you  many, many years, for so~e great work of His. His purpose may be you know not what.  T cannot talk about this. We must an foHow Him sooner or later. You may close my  eyes, we know not before how long. Annie a..lJ.d John La\vrence were up spending  yesterday with us. Annie and r talked iong ofW. In speaking of Aunt Maria and Sue's  loneliness, she told me that Sue dreamed ofW. every night The last time, she saw him  in his coffin, rem.ly for his last resting place. She was hanging over him, weeping bitkrly,  when his eyes unClosed, and he said, "Don' t, don't, dear Sue. Your weeping disturbs me.  T cannot rest. Do let me rest." Poor Sue, she never fOf a mo-ment f-orgets her grief. Oh,  you spoke of seeing Clare and Sue Bucher. 1 do hope you \viII. How glad they would be.  T envy you and them. How changed H. will seem to you. As for me, it seems that T shall  never care to go back. 1 had not heard from Clare for a good, long while, had an  invitation to the Bachelor's Picnic on Thursday. They would have a lovely time. The  day was so charming.  1 WaS sorry, indeed, Nannie, that you could not have your letter on Saturday, but yours  did not come till Sat. evening and did John tell you what an awful creature he had been?  He carried it in his pocket until Sunday evening, forgetting to deliver it, and 1, wailing  and bemoaning for two whole days and nights (not in his presence, though), the loss of
my letter. Oh, 1 thought of you stretched on a bed of pain. 1 did not know how severe,  (but 1 didn't doubt your love) and 1 thought somebody else might have my precious letter  and Sunday was a miserable day to me, and when the letter did come, I felt like scolding  you right hard for telling me you had taken a cry over mine. Never, never let me hear of  vou doimr such a footish thing a1!ain. Of course, I know you are satisfied ah'&lt;Yut in'Y  . having th"'~ baby. 1 did not ill~an"anyihingby what 1 said.- 1 kil0~V you, AnDie, 1 gu~ss 1  know you well, very wen, and that knowledge is all that is necessary. The baby is a dear,  preciDus little thing and I knO\'l you will IDve it when you see it. I am doing all lean fDr  it by night and by day, but my tenderest care cannot ward otfthe baby ills. I must leave it  in God's hands. It has already had some of them. I mean to keep it as long as George  wiii be satisfied to let me have it. He is most anxious that the children should not be  separated, that they should grO\v up together, a loving family, and as all think it would be  for the best, I do not hope to keep the baby always, however hard it may be to give the  darling up. Already Mother and I love it so. We cannot bear the thought, but we must do  what will be for the be'&1. I hope it may stay a long time yet. Poor George went back to  his _home onMondav~ taking John and .M"aria with him. Mv heart ached for him and J .i, . ~' . ./  would have liked so much to go with him to make it less hard. When the baby gets a  little older, I will take him up there and stay awhile_ Oh, how I want to see Sarah and  Loulie. I think I never wanted anything so much. Dear,dearLou,you must give them  ever, ever so much love from me and tell your sister I do hope to see them before they go  home again. Give Loulie-a kiss from me; the dear child. How happy you will be-to have  them with you this summer. -How our hearts go out to meet those who show so plainly  what a Christian' s life should be. You have a sweet example before your eyes, Nannie  dear. T am glad you are reading the "Saint's Rest." T have read it many times, it is a  lovely book I have commenced it again, am glad you spoke of it. It was one of the  books W. read in his last days. How fitting the preparation, and how tritling the glories it  speaks ot: must see to the real enjoyment of the reallty.  What a house full of company you have had . Your dear Auntie, I would like to have  seen her. Her visit was very short. I am glad your Uncle Sterrett is better. I have seen  Flavel Woods hvice since he came to Hunt. He came up here to see me and I was  amused at his disappointment about the town. I guess he irnagined Alexandria a little like  the present age. I saw him once in Huntingdon. The gentleman who was with him was  teasing him about some young ladies there, so T presume nay is not so bashful as his  blushes would seem to indicate. He is a real nice boy. 1 like him. I guess 1 will have to  givc Mr. Emst up as incxorable. Thc dagucrrotypc did not comc. T am waiting to writc  the "neat little note of acknowledgment." Do tell me how to make my barege dress -  sleeves particularly. I'm in a dilemma alld Clare won't help me out, for she says she has  not seen any. Tell me how you made your English barege - as you like your dress, your  barcgc, you cannot help liking thc poplin, for T think it thc prctticst matcrial T cvcr saw.  Send me a little piece of each. I want to imagine you in them. I have not anything fixed  for summer yet and jt js bjgb time. 1 must make some evening "'Tappers - ahem_ Tbe  dear Willie is sleeping so sweetly in his cradle after his morning's ablutions and he's  getting fair and pretty_ Mr_ and Mrs. Lovvne spent a day with us last week, but only a  day. We thought they would stay all night, but they could not. They are both very  lovelv Me Lov.rrie savs he sets us down as heing "model friends_" afwavs has_ He made ..;1.1 'V Y .I
manv inauiries about vou. Oh. Ned Sfanchard and Mav Cameron r r rr Atl:er aIr our not  .... ' .. ,.!.' ,.i  believings, etc., to think they are to be married. It is too bad, people might have some  taste and judgment. Does MJs. W. say anything about it? I did not believe "Ned" would.  Well, well, there's nobody peIfect in this world and those we think are inay be furth.est  from it I've been reading, "Say and Sea!." It does not compare with the wide, wide  world. Oh, tell me all, every1hing. 1:1r. Prossiance told Sylvester about me and __ _  I won't write that name. I do want to know and teU me all about your journey, what you  saw and thought about, etc. If I had been in Wilkes-Barre, of course, I would have gone  to see Tom Huling's sisters, who live there. Lovely people they are, but not half so smart  as Tom. I ca.'1 easily imagine how lovely Alleghany is now. How 1 would like just to  peep in and spend an evening with you ail. It would be my highest enjoyment and to see  sister Mary and her little baby, but I \vill wait a little while yet. I am looking over at  Charley 's Hill where we walked last summer [or one of those walks and talks. Oh, write  me soon, Nannie darling, everything. I love you and depend upon you so much, my own  precious Nannie. You were naughty, though, to forget Sylvester's messages. Do be  more careful another time. Give a great deal ofTove to an your dear family tor me and r  am always and ever your OW11, Nannie.  Our "Wilmer's Laurent" is in [ull bloom, it is a beautiful pink.  Box #442






June 21 ~ ] 860  I'vly dearest Annie,  1 know you will be disappointed this evening, but 1 could not possibly avoid it.. . Company  came, which took up my whole evening and all of this day, until too late for the mail. T would  fain have stolen sonle of the "small hours" of last night, but Willie would not let me do that  even. He fretted and fumed and made me pay bim all the attention I would have devoted to  you. He considered the night a good time to wail, the httle blue eyes staying open with a  wonderful peliinacity. You ask me to take my baby up to see you. 'vVhy, Nannie darling, do  you know what a frail, dclic.ate thing a little baby is - seven weeks old - and what attention he  requires? Why, there is not one moment, day or night, that he is not watched - either rocked in  his crddle or in my anns all the day. Oh, yes, there's an occasional hour in the night he will  sleep without rocking, but they are very few. I had no idea how closely mothers were confined  with the little things. The nurse left us two \veeks ago because she wa" sick and it is impossible  to get another one we would trust. She was the children's nurse all winter - a good, faithful one.  They say Willie is not a good baby, for he cries nearly all day, from fOlU' till eleven at night, but  1 guess he is as good as most of them. Poor, little darling, it is a good experience for his Auntie.  T wouldn't for the world be without him, but you ean know how al1 my evenings are spent,  carrying him in my anns, Mother and i alternately. She is such a dear, good, kind nurse. No,  dear Nannie, you must come and sec me. T could not leave "tv10ther with him alone and T could  not take him \vith me (the thought is so funny, f laugh). fr young gentlemen would see me  going in the cars with my baby - Sylvester would laugh, too, I know he would. You are kind  and sweet, darling, to suggest it Before the SUl1Uller is over, I may go up and see you. There  will be a way. 1 must see Sarru~ and Loulie. Enoug.~ about the baby now. 1 did not intend to  begin again with it and write so much, but you must expect to hear a good deal of what occupies  nle so continually. It is such a sweet relief to write to you, Nannie, about everything. I don't  know? T do not wish to unburden myself to you. T am sitting now by my room window looking  over at that tree, wishing that we could, this evening, walk on the bank of the river. I wa...nt you  always. Everything is so lonely now. The open window reveals such beauties and the  honeysuckle and jericho below perfume the whole air. It comes wafting in to me - imprisoned -  most gratefully. 1 am so glad you had a nice visit and enjoyed it so. It was pleasant to make  those tnends and it will afford you much to think about. This day, one year ago, I was at  Niagara with dear W. Can it be that the ? beneath the trees and that fresh, green grass is  growing on his grave? Oh, tears spring into my eyes. The loved, the tondly cherished, all the  endearing names come into my mLT1d. I anl always saying, dear, dear \ViII. How we loved him,  Nannie. We cannot help grieving sometimes. 1 had a long letter from Sue the other day - its  burden, 'NiH, \-Vin. You shall read it, if you would like it. I am glad you saw Clare and Sue B.  Clare was too delighted to have you there - she loves you so - and her great regret was that you  could not stay. You a"k if Annie and P. Lawrence '"know anything" about it. Wen, of course, 1
bave never talked to them~ but they may know. I cannot tell How glad Sue Bucber would be  to see you. I can imagine her in that costume. She must have looked funny indeed, that bonnet  . is so small. Of course, you would see L. C. He's always about. 1 don't know·whether Y. sent  me my L'1vitation or not. The writing is hardly scribbled enough. It don't resemble the  inscription in the? manner, but even it if is not, I 'm not a bit jealo11s:' 'LinCmlleron is lo'o blisy  for me to encounter. \\I1mt do you think of Mary and "Ned?" He was down last Sunday again.  BrO\\11 is very faithful. He sends l11e papers, et&lt;:. They must have had a &lt;:hurdl pi&lt;:ni&lt;:, but poor  W.ill Dock had an epileptic fit and in falling, dislocated bis arm! Ob,? Ernest's Jetter. Nannie, I  took a good cry that you should be subjected to reading such language for my sake. Tt is too  bad, as it is all most unpleasant to have such things from anybody, no Inatter how indifferent we  arc to them. T am too sorry about it, Nannie, it is a very ridiculous letter, too, and T cannot  respect the woman. Why, she's silly and passionate 'and so proud. You did not deserve it. 1 am  to blame for wanting it so badly and urging you to write. i shaH be thankful for the dear, little  pidure, but it was gotten at too great a pri&lt;:e. How I will value Illy three treasures. \"11at year  was this la~t one taken and do you know just what year the one with the large collar? Please  ten me. Wouldn't you like to see the Japanese? I've been reading about them, but T think the  people make too much fuss. Americans always do, particularly New Yorkers. I feel so well  satisfied to stay home this summer. It seems to me T never was so well-contented. T never sec  Han Green. T do not go to church in the mornings and she never comes at night and she never  deigns to conle and see nle. i supposed, of course, she would after i(..wne home and she knows  r have the baby and aU and cannot go over. r rcaUy want to sec her v&lt;:ry mu&lt;:h. Oh yes, it is all  very well to say drink Bedford \vater, if you would only ta~te mine. rcs horrid stuff r brought  some up for George Lyon (who I forgot to ten you wa~ here) yesterday and he screwed his face  into all possible shapes. He's forever and ever urging me to drink it. I am taking my medicine.  1 am glad you are going to try it. It did me so much good last winter. George Lyon and 1 are  becoming quite good friends, but T'11 not tell you more, for fear you w111 say it's another "T "yon  lie." It lakes some lime to know the genHenlatl, he's so extremely diffident, but I like hinl.  Becky Valentine is at Colerain. T would like much to sec her. Poor George, he says in a letter,  "Life, light, love all seem extinguished and 1 cannot think of anything but that Sallie is gone  from me forever. No, not forever, thank God there is an eternity and were it not for occasional  gleams of the mercy of God in Christ, T know T would sink under my affliction." The children  cried and mourned for their mother when they went back home. They seemed to have thought  she wa~ up there all the time. Poor George and poor Sallie's children! Nathan Hill wa~ here  this morning and Falher spoke to him for Sylvester. I don'llhink he looks like Sylvester  anymore. Those little eampanula your Ma sent Mother are blooming and they are so pretty.  Your dresses are very pretty indeed. 1 saw bareges like those and liked them. 1 think the  material is cooler than woolen barege. The poplin is beautiful. Do you imagine you will like  tight sleeves? I do not. Oh, tell me what you hear fronl1-1ary \\Tilson and tlJ.at quarter. I will  send you Sue L. 's letter. You may care to read it. I've heen preserving strawherries and heen
very successful. Have you many this SU111Iner? Dear Loulie, tell her I send her a kiss and my  baby sends one, too. I am conscious of the inferiority of this letter. I can only send you a great  quantity of love and depend upon you. You nlust come soon to see me. When will you go to  W..r. LO\\Tie's? Give much love to all for me and I am always your own, Annie.  Box #442









My dearest Annie,  Alexandria  June 26, 1860  Another week has brought me to my usual subject, my great comfort. If I only'had'the  assurance that my letters would give you half the pleasure, I'd be satisfied. I've just come  in from walking in the garden this early morning and it is so sweet and refreshing. I have to  steal my walks now when the baby is sleeping and they are all the more pleasant. The rarity  enhances the pleasure. I can easily imagine how lovely Alleghany is now, indeed, my  thoughts of late are all of you and I'm constantly longing to be up there for just one pleasant  evening. How I would enjoy it with you, your Ma, Sarah, Sylvester and all. Oh, it is too  delightful to think about. I must not indulge the fancy. You ought to be happy, Nannie, so  much that is lovely about you. I had determined to see Alleghany in June this year, but how  little we know. I wish you could see our pinks. They are too lovely. I never saw anything  sweeter, more fragrant or profuse. I wish I could send you some, just to let you see them. I  am constantly thinking of this time last year. I was with dear W. Oh, that visit was so  opportune, so providential. I have so much that is pleasant, nothing brings you so near as  traveling. I think of the evenings when twilight came on. W. and I, watching the darkness  gradually stealing over everything from the car window, and the conversation. I can  remember so much now. It all comes back to me. There are not many times in the day that  thoughts ofW. are absent from my mind. Never did anything take such hold of me. Poor,  dear W. How great is our love. I gaze and gaze at the picture till my thoughts give life to  the features and I again hear him speak. I enjoy those little communings down in the parlor  with what brings him so near. Dear Nannie, can we ever forget him? Of late, I have  thought more of him upon earth than in heaven. I don't want to. It is not so profitable or  comforting. Is not the "Canitokest" lovely? I can read it over and over again. Oh, for some  of that awesome, fervent breathing after holiness and anticipations of Heaven. What a  glorious place it is and I always think of dear Will enjoying it all, safely at rest, and dear,  dear Sallie. Oh, they would know each other. What a blessed thought that is, that we shall  know and be known. The day after I had written you, Han Green came over and spent the  day with me. She had much to tell me of her last winter's visit. It was Will Nassau that  told her about you being in H., etc. Han wants to know why you don't write to her. She  expects Min Bisphum this summer and they are going over to Bedford. Min is engaged to a  gentleman in Philadelphia, a clerk in a store and her parents are opposed. It is unfortunate.  I think she is a very sweet girl. There is no truth in the report of Han's engagement. She  told me so. Han gave me a great deal of news - more than I have heard in a year, I guess.  How they hear so much is a mystery. She has a Harrisburg correspondent, John Bombaugh,  and that is retailed, too, and with that of this country, there is much - entirely too much.  Clare don't know half of what is going on. I've been thinking so much of other things
lately. I hate to go back to the world - hear its gossip and listen and make comments. It jars  against us and I wish it always would, but we cannot expect that. Yet it is possible to be "in  the world and not of it," the life a Christian should live. I don't believe I have patience to  visit till that little daggeurrotype comes. I never was so anxious to "see' anything and have it  safe in my possession. My remembrance of it is that it is beautiful and Ikn6wit 'is, and ..  truthful, too, however indelicate it may be in me to tell you so. I can remember how I  almost worshipped you. Oh, I cannot say it to you. You are passable since, yes, passable.  You want to see me in my baby relations. Well, come and see me. Next time George  Lyon comes down, I'll write for you. You absurd thing, "a lover and a baby." "Et tu  Brute." Everybody says so, because forsooth a gentleman's business call him here three  times. The dear public. How little I care, though I'm glad George comes. He is so  agreeable. Han Green had heard of it.  I think it is strange, too, about you and W. liking the same chapters and ? and his being  here that time. I remember it so well, dear Will. Haven't you sweet, tender thoughts of  him? I am so glad you do not grieve. It is so much better and really there is nothing but  what we must thank and bless our Heavenly Father for. Thank you for sending the hair. I  did not get any more as I expected, oh, the past. Keep Sue Lawrence's letter till you come  down. You need not send it. I want you to write me a longer letter. The last did not satisfy  me. Don't follow my example. You have more to tell me about. I never found out about  that letter in W. 's trunk. I could not get courage to ask Sue about them. It seemed so like  prying into things, but how I would like to know if they were mine, or if mine were  destroyed. How I hope they may have been.  I will deliver your message when I write to Sue. Her health is not good, poor girl. Some  of her friends think she will soon follow her brother. I am sorry your sister has been sick.  She is so uncomplaining. Father was very sick yesterday and the day before. We found he  was taking a fever, but he is better now. Your humble servant had a day of prostration last  week entirely, not with sick headache, but something for which "Calomel andjalape" was  prescribed. Mother took Willie with her that night and I felt so lost and bereft. I could not  sleep. The dear baby, he's two months old today. He laughs and crows and is a dear little  fellow. Mr. Lowrie has gone out to see his lady love again, I guess. He goes very often.  We, his curious congregation, cannot fmd out whether he really visits a lady or not.  Oh, I have so much sewing to do and I cannot do one stitch. My summer wardrobe is  not in order yet and I had made so many plans for underclothes, etc. Well, there will come  a time when I may sew. The Colerain folks are raving about a new sewing machine they  have. All the machines in the country do not interest me now. What are you sewing now?  What are you reading? Tell me something about your daily life, where I can imagine you,  qb. w. J~. D~(l
how you spend the evenings. It brings me so nearly on. Oh, I love you so, darling, and  want to be with you. Don't speak ofaftemoon naps. Sir William takes his in the forenoon  and his pleasure is mine.  Maybe it is not true abou! May and Ned after all, from what you say. The people in H.  may be mistaken. I wonder how Johnson and Josephine are progressing. Sue Bucher has  not written me yet. Did she tell you why she did not write to you? Perhaps she will come  up when you are here. Do you expect to go anyplace this summer? The Fourth of July will  soon be here again, does not time fly? Four years since the Capertown fourth. Does it pain  you to recall it? Dear Nannie, Mother sends love to you. Write me a good, long one next  time. They are so much to me. Kiss Loulie for me. Give my love to Sarah and all. Your  own, true, Nannie.  Margin writing: Oh, I shook hands with Flavel Woods on Sunday. He was up at  church -looks well. Oh, Nannie, those things of yours are here still. I am afraid  you will want them. I have not had a chance to send them.  Box #442










July 1, 1860  My dearest Annie,  I have just passed-through a-night and day of extreme anxiety. Little 'Witlielsslck,:-hasa greac  deal of fever -and his is aklld of stupor which is very aiarming, as he is always so active. ali, -  that is the dreadful feeling - this responsibility when they get sick, to wait and watch and care for  them when well is no example at all. It is pleasant and I love to do it, but oh, the anxiety when  sickness comes. It is fearful and weighs me down. All we can do is to trust in a merciful  Providence. I never leave him a moment and if this letter has any extra strokes, attribute it to the  motion of rocking the cradle with one foot while writing, a feat I've learned to perfonn. I will  write my letter today and send it to the P.O., but if you should not get it tomorrow evening, do  not blame me. I heard some talk of a new mail arrangement going into operation today, by which  we will only get our letters three times a week. Horrible! I don't believe I can endure it­anything  but that - when my happiness is so bound up in a daily mail. I'm hoping still it is not  true, but fear it may be. The Williamsburg stage will pass through here and carry our mail. I will  tell you when I hear, so that I may get my letter from you at least, darling, the day it is written  and you shall get mine. My dear little dagguerrotype. Oh, the flood of observations it recalled,  the sweet, beautiful face. How glad I am to have it, thank you, thank you a thousand times. It is  the prettier of the three, but I know W. liked the one he had more than he would have this one.  He always thought it beautiful. Just think of the three - my treasures. We had them all together,  comparing them. I hope yours reached you safely. I knew, of course, Sylvester would not think  of opening the package, but you told me to wrap the dagguerrotype up very well and although it  was not very well done, it was secure. I am afraid Sylvester had not a very pleasant visit. I was  so stupid from a miserable headache - the evening - and in the morning I tried in vain to  extricate myself from the baby in time to see him off and had just put the last touch to my dress  when the carriage drove off. I was so disappointed. I was so glad to see Sylvester again. It was  a long, long time. I intended sending you some of these lovely pinks, but was just a moment too  late. I thought, of course, you had told him about the trouble we had to get the little  dagguerrotype and commenced the subject, but now discovered he knew nothing and perhaps I  made a blunder. I always feel guilty about the part I took in it, but I have it in my possession and  the same of it makes me happy many times in the day. Nannie, why do you talk so about "a  shadow hanging over you?" Dear Nanni~, what does it mean? You alarm me. You will not tell  me and I do not understand. What fonn does it take? I know there is everything in dear Will's  death, the loss to us, I mean, to make us sad. But oh, we must not wish it otherwise and we dare  not. God has only taken him a little while before, and I am sure it has done us all good, in  showing how vain are earthly things. They have lost so much of their charm to me. I sit here all  day in my room and all the evenings with the little baby, thinking of you and dear W., and the  happy time gone forever, gone, dear Sallie, too. The baby is a constant reminder. Why do we  cling so to earthly things? You are enjoying these warm days, you say. To me, they are
unpleasant, as my whole system relaxes and I consider them very productive of biliousness.  Nothing is so enervating to me. The 4th is to bring forth an immense picnic here. More than an  hundred invitations have been given out to strangers from all quarters and many are coming: 'I .  have made the commissioner of invitations very indignant by saying I' could not- go, bilt 'ifwould' .  be torture to me, a large party of any kind, particularly so promiscuous iii one -as this will be.&lt; - .' .  They will go up in a boat, about six miles, to one of the loveliest spots in the world, I think. I've  been there often, when a child, to gather apples. It is on one of Father's farms. I remember the  lovely green spot under the trees and the clear beautiful water and going up by Water Street in a  boat. You know the way, it will be delightful. Flavel Woods is to be here and the Colerain girls,  many from Huntingdon, Hollidaysburg, etc. Indeed, I don't know who they have not invited.  Dear Nannie, it was just as I feared about the mail and you will have doleful thoughts this  evening about me again, but I cannot help it. Unless they should change before next week, do not  expect your letter before Wednesday. Send yours just the same on Friday. I will get them the  same day, only three hours earlier. Oh, how I miss the pleasant expectation, waiting for the  letters in the evening, but we will not talk of it. My pleasures are dropping off, one by one. Oh,  now this is ungrateful, but Alexandria cannot get much lower, I guess, in the scale than it now is.  I burned my hand so badly this evening in preparing Willie's milk that it gives me exquisite  tingles sometimes. Fortunately, it is the left one. I am so sorry for poor Mrs. Pearson. How very  badly your sister must feel. Suspense is dreadful. I am very sorry for her, indeed. Sylvester told  me of her being sick. Did the baby live? I am very anxious to know. Poor thing! How she must  have suffered. Nearly every woman who has been confmed this spring, of whom we have heard,  has had those fits of depression and melancholy. You know, poor Sallie. Sister Mary thought  she would die certainly. It is very strange that so many should feel so. Mary has the loveliest  little baby. It looks like an entire foreigner, hair as long as my fmger and black as jet, and black  eyes, and she is so good, but, oh, Nannie, one of her little feet is turned in a little, just a little. Dr.  Gemmill says there is not the slightest danger, that it will be quite straight, but sister Mary is so  anxious. She thinks about it the whole time, fears that she will be lame. She has no doubt an  operation could be performed that would make it quite straight, but it is so hard to do such a thing  to a poor, little baby. It was so strange. Before the baby was born, Mary felt all the time there  would be something the matter and the first question she asked was, "Is it deformed?" She thinks  it may have been sewing on the machine which caused it. She calls her Helen and she is a dear,  little thing. We had a great time comparing babies. You are getting your dresses made, but poor  me cannot get anybody to sew or sew them myself. Clare sent me a pretty sleeve pattern and  purple buttons trimmed with black lace to trim my barege. I can imagine how tired you would be  of sewing nine flowers. Oh yes, in "Say and Seal," when I fmished the book, muffms and tea,  tea particularly, are most prominent in my mind. I was so tired of that tea-making. It was  ridiculous, yet I liked the book and could not miss a page of it. I wish Mary Wilson would write  to me, if she's ever going to. Maybe May and Ned will not be married, after all. I'm tired of  hearing about it. Warford's pet horse was burnt to death in a fire the other night.
Lenny Wilson has just been in. Dear Lenny, last time I parted with him was just after dear  Will's ftmeral. We went from the cemetery to the depot. Oh, what seeing Lenny recalled, one of  !hose who lowered dear Will into his lonely grave. Do you beli~ve our friends in heaven see us  on earth? , Nannie, ifnot, ,what is meant by ministering spirits, etc? Oh, to know him again in  heav'ett' WhaUite all these trials' if We reach heaven at last? . We had your'Mr: Chlfl( on S lillday.  He gave us a fme sermon, the people thought. I guess I did not appreciate it. What did you think  of Samuel? Your Ma, Sarah, Sylvester? Tell me when you write. I'll give you my opinion of  him when I see him. It has changed a little, but don't for the world mention it. Sylvester and I  had some nice games of backgammon. I am glad Lenny is home. He will play with me when I  steal off from Willie an hour.  Early 4th, 1860: Dear Nannie, what thoughts this brings up, but you told me not to speak of  past time. I would like to have heard some of the exclamation of the disappointed party this  morning when they would see the rain. They are, however, determined to go in the boat. Some  of the Hunt. folks have arrived, among them, Flav Woods. Willie is better, almost well, and I am  so thankful.  Oh, there's a party in the parlor for me. I must go. Dear Nannie, I am sorry you were  disappointed last night and I suppose what your thoughts of me were. You are determined to  believe I do not love you and it makes me unhappy. I'm sorry you are so distrustful of me, but I  don't believe you half mean it. You try to tease me, don't you? I will wait patiently my next  letter. Oh, yes, I'm going down. There's Flav. With much love to all, your own, true Nannie.  Box #442





Alexandria, July 7th  For once and a wonder I am as good as you would have me be. Here I am, writing  you even before you desired or before you expressed the wish that I should drop you a  line on Saturday. It is only Friday night but almost late enough to merge into the next  day, but, esteemed sir, this letter is not intended to consist whole of an apology for past,  present and future actions. However, I am perfectly independent. If you don't like the  letter, don't read it.  I have been enjoying myself as you may suppose and am perfectly happy, of course.  Have looked at the moon many times and talked much about love but still am not lunatic.  Wonderful.  Annie and I have beautiful times together. If your ears did not burn one evening this  week, at least, never believe in omens again. They are not true, even if happy sunshine  bursting forth after a heavy storm was once upon a time indicative of the dawning of  bright hopes.  I received the letter and magazine on Wednesday evening. Many thanks for your  kindness. I hope and imagine I appreciate it. If you had told Col. Patterson anything of  which you spoke, oh! Enoch, you might have regretted it, perhaps. I do not know  whether you would care for what I would or could do. I did not know that you and he  were such intimate friends, judging from what you told me of the issue of his first  editorial that you would not be very congenial. Poor fellow! I pity him. His heart has  been divided in so many pieces. I would despair of the fragments ever collecting.  I expect you are in Hollidaysburg by this time and perhaps have been reveling in the  delights of the grand show. Some of its curiosities have passed here.  I wish you had been with us, Enoch, to enjoy some of our moonlit rides. A party of us  went over to Huntingdon the other evening and I think I never witnessed anything so  grand. Words are too tame to express the beauty of the scene and the feelings it  awakened in each heart. No sentiment prevailed, of course not. Perhaps I wished for you  once, perhaps not at all. A gentleman possessing so much vanity, of course, will come to  a conclusion most favorable to his own feelings. Are you angry? Of course, you cannot  be, knowing the character I bear. Consequently, you know how to take me. Annie and I  are going up home on Monday. I shall be glad and sorry both for I have enjoyed myself  so much, but most glad will I be (Annie, also,) to escape the disagreeable presence of  Will C. and L. He is anxious to meet Annie and myself together as he has important  business to settle. If he is not mistaken, I think it is settled, at least satisfactorily to two of  the parties. I suppose you saw the gentleman whilst in H. Have you anything to tell me  when I see you? I only ask it wondering if you have, but I'll refrain from asking any  questions at present as I must be done with this miserable-looking scrawl. I am ashamed  to send it. Blame it all on the intense heat of the day and I'll feel better although laziness  may have a little to do with it.  Annie Porter wrote you a long message but she will not send it. I wish you could see  it but I dare not say anything about it. She sends her kindest regards thinking your heart  is not able to contain any more love.  Love as ever,  Arihle








My dearest Annie,  Monday evening  July 16, 1860  You contrived once more to put me into a fret about my letter. I wish I could  get used a little bit to the disappointments of this life. I'm sure I've had enough of  them. I resolve again and again not to let little things trouble me, but this always  proves too great a thing. However, let it pass this time again. You seemed to be in  such a mood for "schooling" yourself, perhaps it would be as well for me to take a  few lessons. I don't want to begin. I am so glad you have been so happy, darling,  and that your health is better. When you last wrote me, you were sick and very  unhappy, I thought. I give Martha Martin a hearty note of thanks for doing you so  much good. Your letter had a hearty, cheerful tone which none have had for a long  time and it has had its visible effects upon me. Your letters often lift me out of fits  of depression and sometimes have the opposite effect, of course. Never again  speak of getting someone to take my place. Oh, Nannie, you are sweet, indeed you  are - you madden me, you unnerve me. I cannot bear it. Is it indeed, then, so easy  to give me up? I never look forward to the time when my affection shall change  one jot in its intensity for you. If you are married and separated from me  thousands of miles and absent years upon years, it seems to me now you would  always be just the same - too much of my life and happiness are in your hands, but  I will not say any more about it. The old subject - you doubt me so often - I ought  to bear it patiently. You are a little ridiculous about G.L. and a little premature. I  said nothing at all that would make you suppose anything, because I had nothing to  say. I have no right, suppose "Bedford water" means anything - neither have you  and you are right "shabby" to put his disinterested kindness in comparison with  George Byrne. What shall I call it? ? express it. If you come down here, I might  tell you something, a little thing, about myself, but I guess I'll be like you, with the  "shadow", wait a while to reveal it, if ever. It relates to G.L., but does not  implicate him in the least. He is coming down tomorrow, perhaps, to bring?  Patton's wife, to spend the day. There came a paper for you from H. on Saturday.  Somebody is under the ecstatic delusion that you are here. Oh, that it were true.  N annie, you are wounding me. "What if I should not go down this sUInmer?" I  just think I hear you say those words. Of course, I hope to get up to see you, but  what is that? I can only stay a short time from my darling. I don't expect Sue  Bucher, she looks too much for excitement. She thinks, I guess, I'll be absorbed in  my baby, but oh, I thought you and she would be here together. I expect an answer  to my last letter to her, sometime within a year. Ell promised to write as soon as I  could come home and Annie Criswell, too, but that was all there was of it. I have
few friends and even you are talking of the time when we shall be friends no  longer. I suppose you are rejoicing and reveling in this sultry, disagreeable (to  me), weather. That parenthesis is worthy of George Byrne. Nannie; Leroy Wilson  told me on Saturday that the people--in Danville would not tolerate G. Byme; his  detestable egotism and vanity. He had-the best paper there and an excellent -  opportunity for success, but he was too abnormally self-conceited and vain. Poor  George, he was shoved out of town and it will be the means of ousting him from  all reasonable persons' good opinions. I pity him - my cousin. Leroy and I have  such nice talks. He is lovely. Yes, I can call him that. I never saw anyone more  agreeable in talking or have better ideas of right and wrong. He united with our  church yesterday and the thoughts necessarily connected with that seem to have  saddened him and to have affected all his conversation. I wish you could see him  and hear him talk. He told me of having met you at the cars - said he hardly knew  you as when he last saw you. You were wearing black. He will leave on Thursday  and I am so sorry, for gentlemen are appreciated here. The Scotts are all here, John  and his family and George with him. Imagine, eleven children in one house, all  small ones, too. I don't know when Clare will be up, unless she came before  August. I want her to wait till afterwards, as Thomas and his family will be home  then and the house is uncomfortably full. Such weather - oh, in looking out of my  window, I see farmers taking in the beautiful grain which stands so plentifully in  the fields. How kind our Heavenly Father - only think, the summer will soon be  gone and I've hardly realized its being here. I am sick nearly all the time in spite  of "Bedford water" and your sympathy. The 6th of September, dear Will, the last  day he was here. I look so often at that tree and often I steal over there alone in the  evenings and have a little, silent cry while the baby is sleeping. Dear, dear Will, so  far removed from us and so happy. Nannie, this "Last Days of Jesus" is so  beautiful. You must read it. I love it. Oh, how I do, to drink in these words of our  blessed Saviour, given in such a lifelike way - "for us, he wept and prayed, for us  endured." How can anyone reject him, the precious Saviour? I dread so the  creeping in of worldly interest and hardness of heart. Oh, if we could always keep  our? "unspotted from the world." I had a note from Dr. Charlton on Saturday,  saying Clare and Paul had been over at Aunt Sue Bryson's and that Clare had a  very severe attack of cholera? and Paul, -one of his worst attacks of croup. Poor  Clare, what could be worse for her? Paul is almost their idol, I fear. Willie was so  well last week and grew so much, but yesterday and today, he has had fever and I  am anxious and "careworn," sure enough. The little thing, he knows me already  and laughs when I take him up. He is not a large baby, but you could not expect it  when he gets only cow's milk. I am so sorry for your poor sister. What suspense  she must be enduring. What tribulation these affections of ours bring us. Han  Houtz has just been here talking with me about her marriage. You know I told you
of her being engaged to a New Orleans man. Well, she has had the greatest trouble  deciding whether it is her duty to go with him or remain with her mother. She told  me this evening she has decided to go, has written for him to come on - so she will  lose another of the little flockthis Fall. Poor Han - she deserves some happiness.  Her whole life has ~een a s~crifice and full of care and anxiety. She cannot  reproach herself for having failed in duty to her mother, but oh, I cannot see how  she can bear to leave her. What will we not do - for this one passion. You asked if  Leroy were engaged. He is, but it is a secret - don't mention it for anything,  Nannie, nobody here knows it. This paper of yours looks like Brown. I thought at  first you might be coming and did not tell me, but others knew it. Oh, I wish I  could see you a little while. It will be nine weeks tomorrow since you went away.  Dear, dear Sallie, I am always thinking of her. Mother and I talk for hours and  hours about her, and the little baby is a constant reminder. Poor, poor Sallie. Oh,  it was hard, indeed, indeed, it was to leave these little ones. I cannot believe she is  dead - gone forever - oh, I cannot - I banish the thought - and do not dwell enough  upon it - never to come back. Oh, death is an awful thing. I will never, never  forget that sorrowful day, coming out from dinner when you, darling, told me. I  never dreamed, or for a moment thought, she would die and it was so dreadful -  dead, dead. I could not think it and oh, when I went up in the morning and saw the  form so like-like, cold and rigid in death. Oh, may I never, never again have to  witness such a scene. My tears blind me when I write. The little baby, for a while,  diverts the mind, but oh, it is the one dwelling thought - those two dear ones in  their graves. Sallie Porter and Will Lawrence. How could I write it? Oh, I'll have  to stop. Good night, my own, precious darling. God bless you and keep you.  Tuesday: I have only just time to dispatch my letters, darling, expect the company  any minute and I've had so much to do this morning. If Martha Martin is with you,  give her much love for me, to your sister, too, and all your dear family, not  forgetting a kiss for Lou. Do not disappoint me again in my letters. Your own,  Nannie.  Box #442









My dearest Anni~,  Saturday night  July 21, 1860  A quiet hour with you will be a pleasant ending of the week. I imagine you and  Sylvester sitting on the portico this evening, enjoying the fme, delightful air together.  How blest you have been, Nannie, in having Sylvester with you always, and such a  brother, so thoughtful and kind to you always. Few there are who are so highly  favored. Oh, I know how you must feel in having Sarah and Loulie go under such  distressing circumstances. I am so sorry for your poor sister. She is so sensitive and  affectionate, but she has every reason to hope her sister will be better and she should  feel encouraged. Of course, I shall say nothing to anyone, dear, but indeed she may  hope. I know two ladies whose minds were affected just so - last winter in H., and  are now perfectly recovered. I think so much about poor Mrs. Pierson, both for your  sister's sake and her own bright, talented mind. You must tell me, Nannie, when she  gets better. I am sorry you are so lonely. If I could only be with you up· there now,  wouldn't you be glad and I be glad? Your Pa will be home this evening. I spend all  my evenings with the baby, just think of that. I have no Sylvester to talk to. The  baby only responds to my remarks by an unintelligible croon, as I sit up here alone,  thinking of you and of our present and our future and our past. You are ~ dear saint,  Nannie, to talk to me so about my future, as unselfishly as it is for human nature to  do. I know what there would be in the event of the marriage of either of us, as a  matter of course. I know nothing in life or death could ever diminish my love for  you, but of course, there would be a change in our relations and breaking up of some  petulant little habits. I'll venture to say you would change the most. I've dreaded for  years the idea of your marrying, and if you ever should, oh, what would become of  me, unmarried and alone, desolate. I wonder if I could "school" myself as you are  doing, perhaps unnecessarily. Dear Nannie, you set me an example in everything. In  looking back through long years, I can see how my faith has been strengthened, my  hopes encouraged, my best resolutions fixed by your own walk and conversation and  your loving kindness to me. Your influenc.e has been greater than that of anyone  living, even my own mother, I think, for I knew you at the time when our characters  take the hue of new associations. I know I am complimenting myself, but whatever  is good or worthy in me, I attribute much of the cause to you, my own dear, precious  Nannie. I thank my Heavenly Father again and again for such a friend and even if I  should ever think of love and marriage, I know you would not desert me. G.L. came  down alone on Tuesday. Wistanna could not leave her child, who was sick. We had  a walk to Maple Grove and a drive next morning to Pulpit Rocks. We are not  engaged and I don't know why I am so interested in him, unless it is because I see so
much that nobody else in the world can see. I know, under the sedate exterior he  presents to me, ? such noble, grand ideas of truth more beautifully expressed, such  views of our duty to God and the world . . I sit and drink all in and feel satisfied . . He  has been.aChristian for two years and has not ye-t seen himself accepted. 4=feel so·  sorry and distressed for him. Mr. and Mrs. Lyon and Wistanna came down this  morning and spent the day with us. They think Willie much improved and indeed  I'm glad, for he seems puny to me. My anxious eye catches at any alarm so quickly -  precious, little pet. A baby died this evening in town, one left by its mother, that  poor young girl who married before she was fifteen. It was five months old and  without much sickness - died today. Oh, how I tremble at hearing it. Nannie, you  would be surprised at the skill I've acquired in nursing. I could hardly hold the  tender, little thing when he came and now my voice quiets him. He knows it and he  knows me.  Tuesday morning: Dear Nannie, how I would love to be with you this sweet  morning. We would walk out and I would enjoy so a talk with you. In looking over  my letter, I see that you might almost infer from what I have written that I am  contemplating marriage and that, right now. I am not, really. I do think about it  sometimes, of course, but it is very vague and indistinct and I am not by any means  engaged to G.L. Did you see the meteor on Saturday night about ten o'clock? We  were standing on the porch, Han Houtz, Lenny and some others, when it shot forth  like a globe of fire, so beautiful and bright. There are more visitors at Bedford just  now. I would love to go over with you, but I could hardly bear to go where W. had  been. It was one reason why I did not think more about going over. All were  anxious for me to go. I guess Ell Bucher will go with the Camerons. Lin is going  with Mrs. Warford and her party. They dedicated the old school church in H. last  Sunday. Mr. Burt and Dr. Gurley of Washington assisted. They like Mr. Cattel very  much in H. W. did not like him much and was rather opposed to his going there, as  he thought he might not do much good. I heard something last night about poor W.  that made me feel so sorry. George Scott told me he was so anxious to stay in  Florida and they all felt pretty sure if he did, he might prolong his life two or three  years or longer, perhaps, but Will Dock behaved so dreadfully, W. had to come home  to bring him home. Oh, he acted shamefully, drinking to such excess. W. was afraid  he would kill himself and so he hurried on. Dear Nannie, I know how constantly he  dwells in your thoughts. Oh, it is a sad thing to lose one we love so dearly, and yet,  how we look at it, how selfishly - "might have prolonged his life a year or two." Oh,  when he is now so happy in Heaven. What could be more selfish than such an  expression? Two or three years more of suffering, compared with the eternal heights  of glory. Oh, I remember that time in H., how very happy you were with W. Yes, I  see it all now. Oh, Nannie, let us try to be with him again, more faithfully, let us
strive to win a place beside him. It is such a pleasure to me to think he thought well  of me and I know how you rejoiced in being beloved by him. I would love to read  those little tracts of your sister's. What good she has done in the world. Oh, to be an  earnest, consistent Christian. How the life shines out in the dark world around us.  What was the book, beside the "Marble Farm," which you have to read? I could not  decipher it. I have not written to Sam Lawrence yet and I guess will not now, though  I think much about it. Have not heard one word of Johnson for a long time. I hope  he remembers when I last saw him and is profited. Have you heard from Mary  Wilson yet? Tell me when you do. She promises and does not perform about my  letter. How do you succeed with your housekeeping? I'd like to be there to see. It is  not true about poor Maria Young, those awful reports. I suppose you remember. She  pays attention to her dress now and sometimes sits at the front door. Her mind is  much better. It is not true, for I've seen her. Poor, old Mrs. Cooper is dead. I see  she will be much missed in H.  What a nice time your Ma will have in Carlisle. Tell me something about your  Auntie Anna and Sa'ade. I love them all so much. Father was sorry he did not get to  see your sister this time. He intended stopping the next time he went to H. I am very  glad you are coming down this summer. I must see you and each day it seems more  impossible for me to leave the baby. Remember me kindly to Sylvester. With a heart  full of pure love and affection, I am, your own Nannie.  Box #442








July 30, 1860  My dearest Annie,  My baby has just closed his bright, little, blue peepers to let me have my usual rest. It is  so sweet to come to you, week by week, with mfburden of care, feeling sure of your  sympathy and love, even though the romance and sentiment have all flown, as you say, and  there is danger of my losing the privilege. I ought to appreciate it while it lasts. You have  given "Annie Porter" up, you say. Well, where is she to go, where? If she believes it, she  would be in despair, dark as Egypt, but let it pass, she don't believe it. I don't know what  could have made me change so to you. It is not perceptible to me. I have the same old  daydreams and yearnings, the same old regrets of the past, the same old childish fondness for  my darling friend. There has been no new era of love and hope descend upon me, as you  seem to think. Of course, you shall know all the "preliminaries" of my engagement which, if  ever to occur, is in the far, far distant future. I said G. L. and I were not engaged because all  the world said we were, and I was talking more to myself then, than to you. When you see  Dr. G. again, if the subject should be mentioned, contradict it and to everybody else who  talks. It is not pleasant to have the world say you are engaged when you are not. Now, I will  tell you when I get in love. You need not be dreading a "P.C. time over again" that can  never come. Of course, I laughed at you, as you supposed I would, taking skips into the  future. Your "shadow" is only a shadow. I never dreamed of it being that - silly thing, but if  you are determined to look upon my marriage as a "fact" and are schooling yourself to look  upon it as such, you are giving yourself a good deal of unnecessary trouble and I am  "growing shy already." Why, Nannie, you are suspicious. There is really nothing to be shy  about. Rest assured when that takes place, you shall know all, everything. I will conceal  nothing from you, even the most insignificant. I was trout fishing with G. L. on Saturday.  Howard had to go to Pennsylvania Furnace on business and I went with him to George's to  see him and the children. G. L. happened to be there and we spent a pleasant day. Now, no  doubt, if the "dear public" had known of that, they would say we had met by appointment,  whereas it was wholly providential. George is fixed as comfortably as he could be in his  circumstances, but he says his heart is as dry as ashes and he is just dragging through his life,  for the children's sake. Oh, it made me too sorrowful to see poor, dear Sallie's books and her  sewing machine and baskets, the bed she slept in and died upon and the comer of the little  parlor where she lay in her coffin. Oh, it was hard to believe she would not come in while I  sat there. I've had to lay down my pen and close the little peepers four times while I've been  writing this. This precious thing which cost its mother her life. Your poor cousin Mary, what  would become of her children were she taken? Poor Cassie, what a charge she would have.  Is she entirely well, Nannie? How strange that home and country air should restore her, when  they were so alarmed. It is wonderful. I am glad Mrs. Pierson is even a little better. Oh,  thank you, thank you for the little tracts and the beautiful net. Dear Nannie, you are so kind
to me. I think of your loving hands trimming the ruches for me and it gives me great  pleasure. I am wearing it this evening and it suits me so nicely. Thank you again. We have  -'llLread the tracts. What good, the power of writing such things;~may accomplish in the  world. Your sister may have many "stars in her crown of rejoiging?"from using -her talent in  -this way. What a sweet, lovely Christian she is. Here is Mr. Willie forcing himself upon my  attention again. Why will he not sleep tonight?  Wouldn't it be pleasant for you to be in Bellefonte now? I have such exalted ideas of the  kindness and hospitality of the people there, but Nannie, I was told a short time ago that there  was more drinking done in Bellefonte than in any town of its size in the state. It surprised  me, for I thought they were a usual people. Rose Porter of Lancaster is going there to make  a visit shortly. She expects to come to see me, too,· I believe, but she has told us of it so long,  I'll believe it when I see her. She could hardly exist a day in Alexandria, I believe. Her sister  Sallie is said to be very blissful with her husband and baby. Her husband dotes upon her and  they all dote upon the baby. Howard was at Lancaster at Commencement last week and he  brought me the news. The commencement party was at Sherman's, a very large affair. Jane  Champriege and her sister were there, but John did not happen to be down, owing to sickness.  It was the fmest commencement ever Monbral College had. Ell and Sue Bucher were there.  They went down from Mazie's where they had gone with Clare the day before. I guess Sue  Bucher will never write to me. Ell promised, but she too has given me up. Since I've taken  the baby, all my girlish friends are forsaking me and you, too, 0, Brutus. Professor Koppen  sent his love to me and that is something to console me. John is in Harrisburg now, settling  up dear Will's affairs. After that, he does not know where to tum his face. I have almost  dissuaded him, I think, from thinking of Texas. Howard is going to Bald Eagle Furnace in  the fall. He says he will leave H. with many regrets. No doubt, the regrets meaning young  ladies. Mr. Lowrie and William Lyon gave him their situation and Mr. L. says it is an  excellent one. Howard is well satisfied.  Tuesday evening: Dear Nannie, I had to stop last night. Willie would not let me write.  Mother was sick and I had to take care of him and now our mail going early in the evening,  so I will have to hurry indeed. I wish I had something interesting to tell you. My sphere of  action is confmed to such a small space this summer, vis. my own room, that very little of  what is going on in the world reaches me. Nothing even occurs to me. I sit, as I've told you  before, dreaming over the past, laying very few plans for the future, for I've learned to trust  no future. The experience of the past years has taught me. I think May Cameron and Ned  must be engaged. I guess May would prefer a long engagement. She is so fond of having a  beau. Alick Hamilton would create a sensation in H. Have you ever seen him? He is a  miserable, dried-up, funny old bachelor with a good, kind heart and I like him. Mr. Brown is  constant in sending papers. I wonder he is not tired when he gets no response. When I think  of it, what a poor set of young gentlemen there are in H. Not one unexceptionable. W. Hays,
I thought, might be, but recent events are developing him. I have heard nothing lately. I  wonder who Katie B. has in tow now. Clare tells me so little news. Her eyes still continue a  little better. Paul has had two attacks of croup lately. His weakness is in his throat and I fear  much for him. I have just fmished the browIf Foulard with coat sleeves andthey all laugh at  my ? appearance with them. Did you make tight ones· in your poplin? -I like them. The  Stewarts wore them, that should recommend them to you. They have so many flowers at  Colerain. I was there on Saturday and therr garden is gorgeous now. Uncle David met with  a loud kiss as a salutation. Ugh, wasn't he kind? I cannot imagine what can be the character  of that Mill on the Flow. Won't you tell me? Give a great deal of love to all for me. I know  this is a dreadful letter. Do please excuse it this time. Willie sends you a pair to make up for  his? Darling, good bye. With loving thoughts, I am as loving as you will permit me to be.  Your Nannie.  Margin writing: You would suppose from the appearance of this letter that my ? school days  were being? Excuse its? I don't know how it all happened. Nannie.  Box #442




Saturday night  --:  My dearest Annie,  It is almost the holy Sabbath and I have been worrying with the baby all the evening,  but before I lie down, I want to write you this, that it may go over early on Monday  morning. I've made myself almost sick wondering what has detained my letter there two  evenings. Of course, all the forebodings and imaginings possible to conceive of are  fllling my mind, but I'll try not to think of them and will suppose you have gone on some  little pleasure party with the Brastows or someone and could not possibly write.  Sylvester said you were quite well when he was here. I was so glad to see him and so  sorry that I was situated so that I could not see more of him. It is so pleasant to have a  familiar friend of whom you are not just thinking at the time, drop in upon you. I was  glad to hear so directly from you, dear Nannie, and now to the object of this letter.  Cannot you come down next week? Clare is here and nobody else. Thomas's have gone  and Annie Criswell did not come. Clare is so anxious to see you and I'll not say who  else. Clare must go home the last of next week, so that we will not get up to sister  Mary's this time and to see you, as I fondly hoped, but she is going to Canonsburg in two  or three weeks and will stop at Bell's Mills upon her return, when I will go up, if I am not  at George's, which I fear I will be, as I've promised him to go the week after next. It is  so pleasant for us, we three sisters to be together, and we try once a year, at least, to  accomplish it. Oh, Nannie, daily, I will be so happy to see you once more. It is so long,  almost four months. I count it by my baby's age, that sorrowful time. It will be  pleasanter for you to come while Clare is here and she says she will not be satisfied  unless she sees you. Paul, poor, delicate little boy, has had almost a severe attack of  croup ever since he came. My poor baby is not well either. Clare brought a book for you  - of Will's - his mother never was satisfied with the poor one I selected, when it was W. 's  last request, and she gave Clare a volume of Montgomery's poems for you. You will like  it, I think.  My own dear Nannie, it is Sunday night and I feel that I ought not to write. Willie  would not let me finish last night, so I will just close my letter. Oh, if I were only sure I  would see you on Wednesday, if you would write me on Tuesday, you would come next  day, I will go to bed with this hope. My heart bounds at the thought of seeing you,  darling. You must tell me what train to meet you at Barnes, Nannie, as there are two  now. All this day the thought that perhaps you are sick (couldn't come), I tried to banish
it. Oh, why did I not get my letter? Mr. Lowrie preached from this, "the path of the  righteous or just is as a shining light which shineth more and more unto the perfect day."  Oh, to be truly a ChristiaJ1,T&lt;Y be able to let my light shine, that others might believe in the  reality of the gospel. I have many thIngs to say to you, Nannie, and hope it may be­convenient  for you to com~e down.--All in the house are sleeping. They would s-end love.  Clare hopes you can come. She wants much to see you. With my best love to all and  hoping now to have you in my arms and see you with my eyes, I am your own, Nannie. I  will give you some lessons in good nursing if you will be a scholar. I do hope Master  Willie will behave better than he has been doing, so that you may not be entirely  disgusted with matrimony. I sometimes imagine I'm right and able, as I seem to grow  impatient in long hours of watching and worrying, but it's the love in my heart that  upholds me - a strange, small baby would bring out the? evil I know. With fond, loving  thoughts of your arms, your own Nannie.  Box #442







August 6, 1860  My dearest Annie,  I sincerely hope you have been enjoying thiS.dClY - surely you cannot complain-of  "freezing," this sixth day of August. Oh, horrors - never, never could I endure the south with  the thermometer at ninety-two. I can hardly exist. I am almost roasted alive, melted indeed,  I am, and so lazy. There's hardly enough energy in my bones to drag this pen - and these  ideas so brilliant and immeasurable - it's a great pity. It is well Master Willie has taken into  his head the idea of sleeping, for nursing is warm work. I suspect you are enjoying it, so I'll  not say another word. But oh, oh, but it's warm. I can hardly believe this to be almost the  middle of August. Never, never has a summer flown so swiftly and yet there has been so  little variety in my life, so few visitors we have had and I've scarce been out of the house -  indeed, my chamber. A year ago, I would have supposed a summer spent thus as hardly  endurable, but we have had so many things to draw our thoughts from the world, that to me,  it has passed with much pleasure and I trust not without some profit. You too, have spent it  very quietly and I know you do not demure. You ask me if nursing the little one has not  disgusted me with married life. No, indeed, not for that part. All my grief is that it is not my  own, my real right and possession. I'm afraid to let all my tender feelings go forth as it will  someday be snatched away from me, but if it were my own, oh, wouldn't I hug it close to my  ~art and wouldn't it be the most blissful sensation, but I will disgust you, as you do not  understand the emotion just yet, but I know no mother could more madly dote on her  offspring than just my own little, affectionate Nannie. Just wait till the time in the future  comes and we see. I feel just as confident of your happiness in that state as I am of anything.  I swear, I feel sure that you will be married happily someday and that you will live a  peaceful, happy, godly life with someone worthy of you, however distasteful it may seem  now. It is not "the wish being father to the thought," it is my faith. Faith not without  foundation, either. For my future, there stretches out a blank, just now, but I hope it, too,  may be filled before I die. Dear Nannie, I cannot bear to think of Enoch Banks' name ever  being mentioned in comparison with Will. It seemed so insignificant to me in doing so. I  think he acted so strangely in talking to Matthew Curtin about you so. For a married man, it  was dreadful. I am confident E. loved you more than anyone in the world and more now than  his own wife, but oh, shouldn't he be careful to speak of it? What presumption in him to  speak of any of your affair with dear W. Nannie, I would never demean myself by speaking  to him ofW., in any connection whatever. I was gratifying him by telling him you did love  W., for he certainly wants to fmd that out. It is a strange thing he should revise such things  now. How very superior W. was to him in everything. Dear, noble Will. How tender and  sweet our memories of him. Yes, it is pleasant to think how his last hours were tended, even  tl)e very last. He was so happy in having those very ones with him in that dreadful hour.  ~ease send me the poetry, Nannie. I love those things so, now. How often my eyes
verflow at things that would not touch me before. W. never knew half the love we had for  ~tlm. How happy he would have been to know even one half you had expressed Tor him. I  am sometimes sorry he did not, poor, dear W. Is it true, too, that little MLBobart died? I am  real sorry: He was so bright. I remember him very well, indeed. I had-quite a talk with him.  _ Was he i '(Jrristian" Nannie, as you know how insecure our lives-.· -WhenhQpe is strength and  dreams brightest, then are we least secure. How does Beckie Stewart like Philadelphia, or  has she been there this summer? I should think the heat of a city would be unbearable.  Mollie Cresswell is here. She has just come from Atlantic City. She got in with a party of  Pittsburgers there, thirteen. Ella Stervail was among them. It was a gay party. I don't know  when Ell Bucher is going to Bedford. It may end in smoke as their expected visits often do.  Alexandria, for instance. It seems to me none of our friends intend, really intend, coming this  summer. They say they will, but it ends there. Perhaps the baby frightens them. Here are  Thomas and Sue not coming till next week and dear knows when Clare will come. You are  coming, I will trust you. Before the summer is over, I must see you. I went over with the  Scott's to Barree one afternoon last week and took tea with the Greens. The General got off  one of his magnificent jokes at the table at the expense of your brother and myself. I'll tell  you about it some day. It was a little thing, but it made me very rosy. Han looks very well  and was so pleasant and kind. We had a delightful day until there came a dispatch for  General Scott from Tallahassee, telling him of a great fire, which was a great loss to him.  There was a Mr. Kidde, a Baptist preacher there, who afforded me no little amusement.  Jarree is such a lovely place. Oh, I never saw a prettier place to build a home than the site  they have selected. There is everything beautiful, mountain, water, trees, everything. Han  ought to be happy. Well, so those things alone do not make us happy, of course, they do not.  I told Han I'd have in my marriage contract the stipulation that the husband should always  remain there in the old homestead. It is too pretty to leave. Mary Gregg was at Barree on  Saturday. I saw her riding through town with Dorsey. I am reading John Halifax over again.  I remember so well Will's comment upon that book. How I enjoy reading it. Did you admire  John? I've read some of the Prof. at the b. table as it came out in the Atlantic's Thomas  Hulings sent me. It was very funny and I was crazy for more of it. Mr. Brown sent me a  paper the other evening with a piece marked very emphatically, entitled, "First Babies." Was  it not delicate and gentlemanly? No doubt he considered it a first rate joke. I am just  fmishing a half dozen chemises, not I, either, but the machine. How does yours perform?  What pretty are you making now? Oh, for one good afternoon talk, one sweet night's rest  with you, my own darling. Nothing could tempt my eyelids down, I'm sure. John is coming  home tomorrow evening. I'll have some H. news, I suppose, not from him though, when I  question him closely, but I presume there will be a letter from Clare. She has not written for  two weeks, longer than anytime since she is married. Her eyes must be worse. Oh, but it is  warm. I can hardly gasp. I will have to apologize for my letter again. I guess they must be  . \ the office before ten at night or they do not go till next day and I have been too much  ,-,vercome by the great heat to write before this evening. Judge Lowrie is here. Samuel took
him over to Barree this evening to take tea. Han is going to Milesburg this week, I believe. I  .",uess Minnie will not be here. She has gone to the White Mountains. I am going to a sewing  party tomorrow, just because I'm afraid of giving offense by staying away, but it is delightful.  George P. and children were down spending the SabbaffiWith us. G. L. did not come this  time. The "dear public" will wonder why. How very officious people are. There are all sorts  . of rumors aboufus. I do not care much and I am sure he~does nofcare at all, so·it matters not.  I did not say any more of G. L. than I want you to believe. He is worthy of all I said, Nannie.  I do like him very much, but there's a distinction between it and the tender passion, I guess. I  have a high admiration and more than all, I don't believe you would like him at all, for you  would never know him as I do. Now, what do you think of that? Well, I suppose you do not  care and it really does not matter much. Mother is sitting here by me, reading. She sends her  love to you. Give my love to your dear family. Tell me about Sarah and Mrs. Pierson.  Excuse my bad letter, please. Say a few soothing words to me when you write. I hope for  everything that can make you happy and that you will always be my own Nannie. I dream of  you, not good dreams, though. Please visit me more agreeably, hereafter. Your own, true  Nannie.  Box #442









August 12, 1860  My dearest Annie,  I've been actually reveling in the changes of the atmosphere, this delightfully cool,  rainy day: Lsuppos~sou are shivering,but you had your share of'heat -andsuffocati{)nlast  week and it's my tum now. Oh, how badly I'm writing, but with one foot steadily putting  the cradle in motion, these jerks must occur. Poor, little baby has a large boil on his head  which causes great moans and starts. I wish I could suffer for him. He received your kiss  last week with a delighted crow of satisfaction - no doubt comprehending what a sweet  lady it came from. What constant, constant care these little ones require. You have no  idea how I am confmed to the home, Nannie. I do not sorrow or grieve over it because I  love him and it is my duty, but I just wanted to tell you nobody has any idea of the  kindness and care they require - until tried. I'm beginning to be accustomed to having  him in my arms, night and day, and kind people never meet me but with the question -  "How is your baby?" more out of courtesy, I know, than from really interest. I know the  world so well. It is a pitiful thing to see a young girl - pardon me - a woman of twenty­seven,  stand up and say she does not believe in the sincerity of the world. Oh, Nannie,  when was I ever happy? "No two hours" of perfect bliss ever came over my lot. I never  was happy, real happy. It is pleasant to remember even two hours. Oh, the gloominess  that comes over me sometimes. It must be because I am so wicked, but I am so  unsatisfied at times. I feel such capacity for enjoyment and nothing to satisfy me and I  think of my youth slipping, slipping fast away - no good accomplished and such a ruthless  craving at my heart for something more. I wonder will it always be thus? I never  dreamed of your being so very happy that night. Oh, Nannie, how you must have loved  him. You never realized it, darling, while he lived, did you? Yes, I know it is "better to  have loved and lost than never to have loved at all." Mr. Brastow was right. Sylvester  will realize some day the bliss of loving, if any maiden fair enough may chance to cross  his path, but I hope he may not have to realize the losing part. It is, to me, the saddest  thing in life, to see a strong man place all his strength at the disposal of - I don't mean  that, either, but to have his hopes destroyed from any cause, by death, estrangement or  anything. I think it the most serious, awful reality in life to fall in love. How happy W.  would have been to know half your love for him, dear Nannie. You ask me if you are  wrong to speak of "those doubts" about your future, ifW. had lived. No, they will come -  there it is - there it all lies - trust is better than love itself - more necessary. The trust that  only can come from one true source. Darling, of course it was best. God knew, "Tis  better as it is." Dear Will. Nothing could be more tender or holy than my thoughts of him  and yet I cannot help saying this with all my love. You might both have been very  miserable, had he lived, and now how happy he is and what sweet comfort and happiness  you have, darling, in thinking of him in his bright home and what wishes it puts in your
heart to meet him there. What beautiful, beautiful lines - thank you, thank you, who wrote  them? Nannie, tell me. What a pleasant friend Mf. Brastow must be. I am glad you have  such an one. I've read them over and-twer and I'll soon have them stored away in my  thoughts, What could so sweetly and truly express your thoughts and feelings? Tears  come in my eyes when I think-of them:~ It is a love so sanctified, so holy, so sweet in its  resignation and hopeful, and oh, the home. I never can express myself, so I will not try.  My heart is gushing over with love for you tonight. I would like you to pet me a little.  I'm so sad, don't laugh, darling. I am in earnest. How much I've talked of myself in this  already. In a letter from Clare on Saturday, she told me of a party who had gone to  Atlantic City. We expected John home last Tuesday, but he wrote Mother he could not  resist the Fates - the ladies had persuaded him to join their party. Ell Bucher, Fan  Berghaus, Lill Kess, the Camerons, Katie Buchler, Dr. Reilly, Harry McCormick, Ned  Blanchard - wouldn't they have a splendid time, going first to A. City, then to Cape May?  I presume Sue B. would have gone along, but Sue Allen came, bringing a friend with her  to visit them, and she could not, of course. Clare told me, too, of their having been over at  Aunt Sue Bryson's. Coming home, the horse commenced kicking. Paul was sitting on  Sue Bucher's lap in the front seat of their carriage. She pitched Paul back to his mother,  then jumped out and snatched Paul out behind and threw him over a high fence into a field  and jumped over herself, all in a few moments. Wasn't it too funny and just like Sue?  Mary Cameron had a baby which lived just three weeks. I heard, too, that Will Dock was  soon to marry Mary McKinley, a lovely girl in H. Perhaps you met her. I don't remember  -- what an awful wish - I cannot think it true. Clare did not tell me and Ithink she would  have mentioned it if it had been. Everybody is delighted with the Cattels. Mrs. C. 's sister  is with them. Miss Helen McKean - a splendid girl. Saade Sterrett is visiting Annie  Criswell. Clare cannot speak in high enough terms of her. She thinks she is so sweet.  Clare says she is "starving" to hear something about you. I have not had much to tell  about you lately, I guess. I do wonder if Johnson is courting Josephine McCormick yet.  Cassie Mc is one more to testify to the remarkable beauty. I must have seen her at great  disadvantage. She did not impress me at all. Miss Irons was ten times the prettier. Yes, I  think it looks as if Ned were engaged. How he does follow Maggie up. L. 's been in H.  very often this summer. They don't interest me anymore. I'm tired of it. I'm sorry for  Saade Sterrett. That is harder than all, to break an engagement for such reasons - death is  far preferable to that. Mr. B. is a close observer of human nature, to see her droop and  fade. Hanna Houtz's lover is here. When the wedding will come off, I do not know -  before very long though, it must be, and then we must say farewell to Han. I say it with  sorrow. We will all miss her much. She is one more gone. Poor Han, it was a hard  struggle between duty to parent and duty to her lover. I think she had decided right.  Faithfully has watched and tended her mother for years and years and borne the brunt and  care of a whole household and it cannot certainly be required of her to give up her life  happiness. Clara is at home and her mother will be among friends. She is so fussy and
queer about her things. It amuses me. Her trousseau is almost ready - away down to  New Orleans. I never dreamed of Han ever being married. I thought she would certainly  remain with me, bullguess there will be but one left. Miss Ann Porter. Oh, pshaw!  There's the l1lailandno l~tters , How. I. dislike that rep,~y. I have so few friends. 0h~wh~! ..  abeautiful~nset~gwhatalovely rain we had. Did you see the ~s~cond-!n~teor7~Tb~s~ __ ·  things terrify me so, now. Oh, that thing about George Lyon was just nothing, not wo rth  telling. Don't ask me. I would tell you ifit were anything great. When Leroy Wilson  was here, he showed me a letter he had received from young Dr. Yeomans, the one Mary  Wilson was said to be engaged to, I guess. It was a beautiful letter. He wanted to come to  Alexandria to practice. I am sorry he is not coming, would be quite an addition to our  society. We have a new physician and Leroy could not encourage him. I must say good  night now, although I am not half satisfied. I hope you had a very delightful time at  Cresson. Tell me all about it. Is Miss Wilson in Altoona and do you like her? Have you  heard from M.W. and what? Give a great deal of love to all for me and I am always and  forever, your own Nannie.  Box #442











My dearest Annie,  Saturday night  August 18, 1860  - I just wIsh I could unburden my oppressed heart to you tonight. Your letter brought me  great relief about your sickness. Dear Nannie, I'm sorry you have been suffering so. You will  denounce homeopathy entirely now, will you not? Do, do drink Bedford water. You ought to  see how fat I'm growing and how well I am now. Perhaps any you might get would not have  so potent a charm. Indeed, the reason I've been so constant in taking it is because I promised  G.L. I would and I like him so well that the water does not seem so unpleasant. Indeed, it  seems really agreeable sometimes. Oh, aren't you laughing? I think I see you, but I may as  well be in love as to have the credit of it. Even Mary Wilson has heard it. Oh, dear, dear,  cannot one have anything to oneself? You know so well about that little "thing" of mine. I  need not tell you. What a wonderful girl my Nannie is. I am as curious to know what you  imagine it as you could have been to know - remember how you tantalized me about that  "shadow" and what it turned out? I am glad you are well again and so happy and satisfied with  your lot, darling. It is a great, great blessing. I could not understand what the little note meant.  Thank you for not disappointing me and for sending M.W. 's letter. It gave me great pleasure  to read it. I had one from Ell Bucher, written from Cape May, which, if it were worth reading,  _' d send it. Written in a perfect ecstasy of delight. Oh, how the party did enjoy themselves.  "Edmund Blanchard sitting by my side, I feel inspired to write," she began. Edmund sent me a  message - May and Katie Buchler were writing, too.  Sunday evening: Wasn't it dreadful? John came home last night and I have a full description  from him. Upon questioning him about May and Ned, he said he thought they must be  engaged. She smiled upon him always, but when Dick Halderman came about, then Ned B.  was dropped at once. Don't repeat this, Nannie. John is so particular about any gossip, but is  not Mary a queer, queer girl? All I want to know of her is that she would fancy Dick  Halderman - no word that I could use would express my detestation of such a character. Oh, it  is horrible and I would not credit what people say alone. I saw it last winter with my own eyes  and I believe she likes him better than Ned. And I don't think a great deal of Ned, either, for  being so easily turned from one object of affection to another. I often have thought how  strangely he must have felt that night he went to Cameron's with you - a rejected lover ought to  be embarrassed. Ned sent me word he wished I was along. I "spect" he did. Oh, the girls  must have looked funny in sea bathing. Lin Cameron and Fan B~rghaus were the only two of  the ladies who could breast the waves. They and Ell Bucher looked well but Mary C. and Lill  K. were so "thin." Only think of the gentlemen talking so, seeing every line of the figure. I  presume it would be considered "mock modesty" to pretend to be ashamed, but it strikes me as  Jeing just a little indelicate for young ladies and gentlemen. However, I've never seen it. It
may be different from what I imagine. May and Ned took long walks every morning before  oreakfast and John thinks she likes his attentions very well. They went on to New York to see  the G. Easton. btl-Kess had all her dresses ruined in a great rain. The girls werelireadfully  seasick, goiIfg ~to N.Y. and the gents sang" Joys that we've tasted" to" them. I-don~t know  whether you've been interested in this· or not. I was, and presumed you wouldlre.~ I'll teU you  more again, if you are.  Monday afternoon: I feel inclined, my dear Nannie, to make as much fuss as Mary Wilson  about the warm day. I feel entirely unfitted for anything. We said good-bye to Hanna Houtz  this morning. She was married at half past six and started on a tour to see her friends in Union  County. Her father was obliged to be in Bellefonte tomorrow, which accounted for the unusual  time, and the gentleman's friends were waiting. There were but few friends present, Caroline  Stevenson and I being the only cousins from town. I helped to dress Han this morning and it  was an unnerving operation, I assure you. She is so funny and fussy about little things and I  screamed at some of her queer speeches. She looked really pretty, if that could be possible. I  believe people always do on such occasions. She wore a gray poplin traveling dress exactly  like yours - the sample you sent me - and beautiful collar and underdress and I never saw  Han look so well. Her poor mother could not bear to be present. It has almost broken her heart  to part with Han. They will not go to N. Orleans till the last of September. Mr. Lowrie's  ceremony was beautiful. He took an unusual interest, I presume, as he is to go through the  -,ame in a couple of weeks himself. He is really to be married the fifth of September to Miss  Hague of Alleghany. The whole congregation knows it and he is not pleased about it. It came  out through the little girl of the family with whom he is to board, Becky Moore, the big, brick  house at the comer. He has engaged three large rooms. They have them fitted up nicely, they  say. L. Samuel will be fixed and I'm right glad of it. She can help him write his sermons and  improve them and keep him from getting lonely and it will stop people talking. Josephine Mc.  was a little mistaken last fall when she was so sure that Mr. L. was in love with her. She  counted him among her conquests and he's been engaged two or three years. We have  communion in our Church next Sabbath. Mr. L. will have no one to assist him unless Thomas,  my brother, preaches for him once or twice. Thomas and family are coming tomorrow. I don't  know how long they will stay. Clare will come then and you, my darling. Oh, I have plenty  of pleasant things to look forward to. How. long will you stay at Mr. Lowrie's and when do you  think you will go? How I should like to be there with you, if it were possible. I think they are  so lovely. Mrs. L. seems perfectly satisfied with her husband, indifferent to the lack of society.  I think I should be, too, if I were married. I would make my house my world, my husband, all  my moods. He must laugh when I am gay and weep with me when sad and drag me out of my  melancholy with his cheerfulness. I would not care then if a desert were my home. That is the  way I would like my love to be and it must be so, ere I marry. Maybe you were right about  that "inner temple" of mine. It may be the unsatisfied feeling every unmarried person has. I  l1eed not any person, I mean, no man. I believe the character is never fully developed until
that come, let come what will. I am not anxious though to try the change. I looked at poor  Han this morning and thought of the love and trust it would require to make me satisfied to be  in her situation and she seemed so happy, too. I heard somethin_g so sad the other day. George  (Jurt Porter of Lewistown, Joe's brother, died of consumption'"laSt ''Yee¥; and hi~ brother, Bob, is  fast following him. Indeed, they delayed the funeral, thinking they might bring them both with  consumption. Only think, and they brought home the body of DLBob -1 from the West, having  died of the same disease. Only thin, three young men, all brought on, too, by dissipation. I am  so sorry for poor Mrs. Sargent. She was such a sweet lady. I took such a fancy to her. Her  poor husband, he was so devoted to her, so it is. Happiness and sorrow go hand and hand, a  wedding and a funeral. Is there no hope, Nannie? None, that she will get better? I am so  sorry. How is Mrs. Pierson? Tell me when you write again. Who was that poor woman  whose husband died of consumption? No wonder she sighed when the word was mentioned.  It is fearful and so many have it now. A young girl of our congregation died of it on Saturday  and a young man of the G.R. Church line. Only think, even in our little town, two. I expect  George down tomorrow. He has not been here for sometime. He will see a great change in  Willie, I know. He and George Lyon are going to Clarion on Thursday to stay two weeks.  G.L. is going to Kentucky for horses. Nannie, you must not expect to see a pretty baby, very,  he is not very pretty, but he is sweet and good and I almost eat him up in my excess of love  sometimes. The darling has two large boils on his head now. You and Mary W. overrate my  great usefulness, I guess. I am happier in doing it, we all are, for making a sacrifice, I think,  .lowever small it may be. My hands are very full, but it does not keep me from thinking about  other things. Dear Nannie, your invitation to go up for a day would be only too delightful. I  know the country is lovely. It always is up there, but I cannot now, you know, our company  coming. If it were not so, I might for a day or two days, one with you and one with sister  Mary. Mother could have him that long. Hetty Fullerton is at Colerain. They were down at  church yesterday. Han Green looked very pretty in a new dark barege. Flav Woods was at  church, too. He often comes up to church when they have none in H. Oh, Charlie Hill is  gleaming out in the sunlight over there. I just see it. How I should like to be under the trees  with you there, my own Nannie. Won't Mr. Lowrie take his bride the long, long walks? Well,  I guess I've written enough. I must write to Clare about Han's marriage. She will be surprised.  Nobody expected it so soon. Will Dock and Mary McKinley are really to be married in  November. MaryOrth and Mr. Leiler, next ~eek. Give much love to all for me. I so hope you  will be more prudent than to take cholera morbue again. Dear Nannie, I hope you are well  now. Tell me if you are. I commenced my letter in a strange way, was determined you should  not hear any grumbling this time. I am noticing now how much you loved dear W., Nannie. I  did not before, never did. Oh, your love is beautifu, for it is unselfIsh as not to wish him back.  How I wish he had known it on earth, dear, sweet, W. Talk to me all you feel about him. I  love it and I'm always sympathizing with you, my dear Annie. You want to know something  about mother and father. They are plodding along as usual, Mother lamenting over the drought  iler flowers are undergoing, and father wearing shirtsleeves this warm day, much to my
discomfort. They were gratified when I told them you inquired for them. I am afraid Willie  will like mother better than me. He knows her better from her weaning cups. Give my dear  l~ye!o your mother and Sylvester. Your dear Nan. Thank you fQr M.W.'s letter. I hope she  will write to me someday.  Box #442












My dearest Annie,  Saturday night  "The Cedars"  September  I discovered as soon as I came here, that do as I would, my letter could not reach you till  Monday. I was sorry that I had not written at home as you wanted a letter on Saturday. It  hardly seems to me possible that it was only this week I saw you and that the pleasure so longed  for is over and gone. I am becoming more and more experienced in the sorrows and joys of the  partings and meetings of this world. I enjoyed to the fullest extent being with you, but it was so  soon over. When we left you at Altoona, Mr. and Mrs. Brastow came over and talked to me, or  rather, when we were drawing near Bells Mills. She was very kind, said she had long wanted to  know me. I said I wanted a glimpse of her baby and she said she wanted to inquire about mine.  What a fruitful theme babies are. You should have seen Willie when he saw me. I'm sure you  couldn't have doubted the recognition. All my solicitude was in vain, he was well-taken care  of, and had really grown in my absence. Tom Hall was on the train coming down and came and  talked to me and in the very few words of conversation we had, there was one large  prevarication. Of course, I had a glimpse of Lin and May at Bells Mills and a very profound  bow from his highness, Harry McCormick. Clare had a shake of his hand, I had not that honor.  I presume you saw them. You must tell me all they said when you write, how Auntie Bobbs  looked and all. People in the country have such miserable ink and pens, always. All this and  not one word about what all the world says lies nearest my heart. You will think me gone for  certain when I tell you he has been here twice since I came, which was Thursday evening. Now  that would be a great mistake and very improbable. We are only looking shy at each other and  one of the visits was on mere business. Mr. and Mrs. Lyon were down yesterday to see the  baby and the Ayres faction today. On Monday, the Lowries will be here, so that I shall not have  much chance of being lonely yet. We were up at church today. On Monday, will have the baby  baptized. Just imagine how hard it will be for me to walk up and take the baby from his father's  arms. Dear, little pet, he is so bright.  Monday noon: Dear Nannie, it is all over now. I had no idea anything could so shake my  senses and such a little thing as walking out of an old country church with a baby in my arms.  He never whimpered, either. He's a dear, sweet baby. Lib Elliott's coming down to see me this  week. She looks so pretty. I wonder they don't have babies, too. She told Sallie, when they  were married, she would be perfectly miserable if she thought she would not have any. They  are a good-looking couple. Willie's kept me awake all of last night and my senses are in a very  unsettled state, together with the baptizing. Poor George, every day my heart aches more and  more for him. It is so lovely here. I don't know how long I will stay. I ought to make a  sacrifice for George's sake and stay awhile. Oh, Clare was so worried about Paul's being so
fitful at your home. She could not get done talking of it. I can hardly wait till I hear from you.  I do hope you have not waited to hear first from me, but that your letter is on the way even now.  I dreamed I saw Mr. Lowrie's wife-last night. She was real sweet. Oh, he's thought so much  about your poor cousin, Mary, sinc~Icame back. I cannot ask you if she is any better, for I  know she is really not, nor will she ever be. -Poor thing, my heart aches for her. She remihued  me so of dear Will. The evidence of her disease, I mean. Oh, a motherless household is a sad  thing, to see dear Sallie's things here, so familiar, the tears are always in my eyes. I wish you  were here, some of the loveliest spots I could show you. You will come sometime with me, I  know. I suppose your Ma has gone this morning and you are alone. I wish Mary Wilson could  be with you. It is that queer old Aunt Lollie that is with them, that Annie Criswell complained  so much about. Mary might leave here, I think, not because she is queer, but she often is there.  George wishes so much you were here with me and maybe I do, too. Oh, I always want to be  with you. I brought with me "The Mills on the Floss" to read and "A Life for a Life," for the  second time, W. 's last gift to me. Poor Will, thoughts of him come over me so often. It seems  so long since I saw him. Happy Will. In our communion yesterday, my soul was filled with  longing to be in that bright home where we will again see each other. I am sorry this letter is so  very scrawly. Perhaps the next one will be better. I had such a conflict this week and I will  take my own pen with me another time. Do not fail to write, Graysville, Huntingdon Co.  George sends much love. Remember me to Sylvester and I am always your own, Annie.  Box #442





S~tl1rd '1.y night  September 29, 1860·  Ivl y dearest Annie,  My pen is at last better and I will commence at least, but may end with the pencil. Your  letter was fully appreciated, I assure you, up here, but what a meager one in length. I was not  half satisfied. The description of Auntie Bobb's party amused me very much. I can easily  imagine how Lin's independence would shock Sylvester. She carries it entirely too far and  they all presume far too much upon their position, don't you think so? They think "the  Camerons" may do anything. People do not hold them in as high estimation as they do  themselves, I am sure. This is sheer jealousy of my ? of course, and I acknowledge that with  all their faults so visible, there is a charm and fascination about them, perfectly indescribable.  Lin's way of doing things makes you admire the thing itself, however improper. They will  have a grand time, I know, and lots of fun. Who is Lin going to visit in Kentucky? Will C.  accompany her there or will she go alone? Annie Warford's manners are sure ladylike, but she  is considered very insipid, although a good French scholar. Lin's penchant for John is funny,  too. I should think he was anything but her style. I have not heard one word from Clare or  from home since I left, and am this evening, I believe, just a little bit homesick. The baby is  not well and I'm so anxious away from Mother. Jane Ayres very impudently took him out in  the cold air one evening and he took cold. I have not had much chance of being lonely since I  came. Everyday but one, we have had visitors. The Lowries spent one day with us, the  Hamills another, Stewarts another. The Ayres's and Mr. and Mrs. Lyon have all been down  several times and George and Tom, so that we've been anything but quiet. Yesterday we went  up to the Furnace and it was just about as hard a thing as I ever did. I had to go or give great  offence and the effort to appear perfectly at ease and indifferent, you know, quite wore me out  by evening. Of course, nobody suspects, but we know, and it is very unpleasant for me. Oh,  Nannie, but it is a secret. I would not for worlds have it known for more than one reason. You  would not fear for me if you would see me. When Mr. Lowrie was here, I could not help  thinking of what he told Sylvester, but it will all be right yet. I promised to tell you all that  would transpire - nothing has transpired. I refused or declined an invitation to go over to Mr.  Hamill's church on the excuse of Willie's not being well. We may all go over to Mrs. Hamill's  next week, if the weather is pleasant.  Monday morning: Good morning, dear Nannie, and I hope you have a pleasanter one than me.  Oh, the dreariness of the country on such a day as this. It is perfectly miserable, and to one  accustomed to city life in which the storms and winds are unobserved, it becomes the more  dreary. Don't you wonder how I endure it? We had no church yesterday and I spent the day  nursing Willie, poor pet. He is better and there's a load of anxiety off my mind. I am
constantly thinking of dear Sallie. The tears were in my eyes all of yesterday, everything here  to remind me of her constantly. Poor Geori~e, he is almost frantic with grief sometimes. We  talk long and o(ten of Sallie. Maria told me on Saturday it was "so long since she had seen her  Mother" and she's constantly checking herself, when inclined to do wrong, by crying, "Oh,  Mother would not like that." Poor, little, motherless things. This day, two weeks ago, I was  with you. Oh, we need not dread the winter. It will soon pass by. I cannot tell you how very,  very sorry I am for your poor cousin, Mary. The time will seem short to her, knowing she  must die and that there is no reprieve. Poor woman! The anguish it must be to look at her little  children and know she must leave them. Oh, I hope she will have brighter hopes of her  acceptance and that she will be comforted on her lonely way. I have often placed myself in  imagination upon my dying bed and thought what? I had that the Saviour will lead me and oh,  the fear of my shortcomings. We are all so much taken up with the world. Poor Carrie! What  a sad lesson for her. Tell me from time to time how your cousin Mary is. Oh, there is Willie  opening his eyes wide. I thought he was fast asleep. You have no idea how hard it is to write  and take care of a baby, too. And you are really going to have Mary Wilson with you. How  nice it will be and how I would like to be with you, too. But I must learn to check my desires  unattainable. I'm afraid I reckoned without my host when I said I would go up when Mary is  with you. Unless she stays a great while, there is not probability of my seeing her at your  house, but you will come down, I know you will. Mary will come, I think. I will be so glad to  see you together and be with you. Mr. Lowrie had a great many questions to ask me about you  lhe other day. He seems to take a great interest in Miss Baker and her friends. I think Mrs.  Brastow quite pretty and so, so interesting, but did not get a glimpse of the baby. Willie  Lowrie is not near so pretty as my baby. Oh, Willie is improving, he will be a good-looking  boy, I think. It is amusing to see him cry after me. Tom Lyon thinks it great fun. He has the  faculty of making all the children dead in love with him. His Mother says it is a pity it does .  not extend to grown people. Tom is so droll. His description of the Huntingdon Fair was so  amusing. The ftrst of October, just think, with all my nursing and staying home, this summer  has gone on swift wings and I'm constantly asking myself where is the fruit of it all. I'm doing  so little always, but there's no use croaking and I will not again. If Mary Wilson is with you,  give her ever, ever so much love from me and tell her the letter she wrote me was very  interesting. Do not forget me, Nannie. ~ou seem to be drawing away from me in some way. I  cannot tell how or why, but I feel it sometimes and you shall not hear what dreadful things I'm  guilty of at such times. I am so dependent upon you. But you know it all, so I'll quit writing  this with a heart yearning for what does not always come. Give much love to all from me. I  will imagine you and Mary in what I count the height of enjoyment, afternoons upstairs with  my Nannie. George sends his love to you and I am always, your Nannie. Please write as soon  as you get mine and I will have it before I go home. It is probable I will not go home this  week.  Box #442









October 15, 1860  My dearest Annie,  Home again, my baby asleep. I feel glad to begin my letter. Three weeks was a long  . time to be away and the end of my visit was worse than the beginning: We rerc~iv~d a  message that dear Father was dangerously ill and oh, the agony of that drive home.  George and I got up in the morning with the expectation of having Clare and sister Mary  come up to spend the day and when we were at breakfast, George Lyon came with the  message which a man had given him who said he had been sent the night before. It was a  mistake about his being sent for although Father had been very ill, he was much better  then and when we got home, he was there to help us out of the carriage. Oh, I hope I  shall never, never have such a summons. It was dreadful. It makes me sick to recall it.  My heart sickens when I think of dear, dear Father . . He had a severe attack of rushing of  blood to the head, so much so as to benumb all his mental power and indeed has scarcely  yet recovered, though he started to Hollidaysburg today. We are very anxious about him.  He will be at Hillsville tonight and perhaps tomorrow night. He said, too, he might  probably stay with you tomorrow night. I wish he were safe home again. Oh, your poor,  poor cousin Mary! Dear Nannie, I did not think it would be so soon. I knew when I saw  her she was very ill and thought she could not be here long, but oh, it is sudden. My eyes  are overflowing when I think of it. Poor Carrie! It is too sad. Oh, I trust she will be  comforted in her passage through the dark valley. It is so hard to die without that support  although every good Christian, I believe, do. Dear Will! It brings back to me his happy,  peaceful deathbed when he passed so gently and surely into the arms of his Saviour,  where he sat awaiting the summons and so willingly trusted himself in his hands. The  approach of winter brings back all to me, the election oflegislators and all. Dear, dear  Will! I cannot wish him back but, oh, it is so long since we saw him and we miss him so.  Dear Nannie, can we ever forget? I see Sam Lawrence is elected to the Legislature and  William Issin, too. Poor Sam! I am sorry he is so ambitious. Nannie, I am sure Johnson  does not think of marrying Josephine McCormick or anyone. He expects to die as Will  died - of consumption. He is not well and does not think of marrying, although he may  be and no doubt is in love with J. Mc. What a gay girl she is. Mr. John Elliott and wife  were here today. They came to see how Father was and to call on Mr. Lowrie. Mr. and  Mrs. L. had gone to Philadelphia, however, and they did not see them. You ask me just  how homely Mrs. L. is. Well, as far as personal beauty goes, she is not handsome, but,  oh, she is lovely, indeed she is. I cannot describe the charm about her, but she is sweet. I  feel as if I had known her always. They were here to tea on Saturday and I did enjoy it.  Am too delighted she will be here, if Samuel does not selfishly monopolize her this  winter. She says I must not leave home this winter. No danger of that, Willie could tell  her. She has yellow hair, a fair complexion, though rough, seeming as if pitted with  smallpox, blue eyes or gray, I never see the color, pretty good features and beautiful  hands, is about your height and is graceful and easy in her manners. I like her very much,  indeed. You would like her, too. She is so refmed and intelligent. I know they are  happy, too, Samuel and she. You must come down and call on the bride. You can just  stop at May Moore's, you know, you need not come down to Mr. Porter's at all. Oh, by  the way, Liz Elliott told me she was expecting a visit from Mary Wilson, so you may
expect Mary when you see her. Dear Mary, I guess you do love her. Nobody could help  it. She does not mean any harm, 1 am sure. Han Green told me yesterday M. was quite  well again. I expect Liz Elliott will spend the greater part of this winter in H~. Perhaps  she-will find everything to suit her taste there. She is so hard to please. She says Kate  will never go back to Bellefonte after H. I don't know what there would bem Bellefonte '  to take them back. Don't repeat this to M. L. 1 was over at ? last week. Mrs: LoWrie'  was quite sick. 1 met Dr. Gemmill there. Mr. L. inquired very kindly about you, not,  however, about your getting married which you say is his usual question. By the way,  who is that one man in the world you would marry? That is not saying a great deal either.  I assure you there is but one 1 would marry or any other right-minded woman, but who is  your one? Surely you will tell me, Nannie. 1 cannot think you will hurt me so. You  seem to think 1 am withholding something from you. It is not so. You know all there is.  I acknowledge my visit up at "The Cedars" was one of the "bright spots" although I did  not anticipate it and that G. L. helped to make it bright. 1 like him more and more and  love to think of him and of all his sweet, kindness to me, although 1 do not love him and  we never talked on that subject and 1 do not suppose he will ? it. 1 am not desperate or  enthusiastic or agitated, but 1 feel a calm, steady, growing liking and admiration for G.L  as his character is developed to me and as our acquaintance goes on. I feel assured he  cares much for me although he may never speak of it again and it is pleasant to have him  think well of me. Such a person. You know all now, Nannie. There is nothing more  than 1 have told you. Oh, you should see how my baby grew when I was away. It would  have done you good to see Mother's eyes when 1 brought him home, her surprised look.  He gained so much flesh. The change was just the thing for him. Sister Mary was here  with her baby and mine far exceeds it. Have the Barstows returned yet? Clare expects to  go on Thursday. 1 am so sorry Ellie will go in three weeks and then he will be lonely. 1  do not expect to set my nose out of the village this winter. Willie will keep me in  occupation. I suppose you have written to congratulate Mrs. Patrick on her good fortune.  Do you think you will go to Princeton, Nannie? 1 think you should, by all means. It  will be so pleasant for you. I am just as glad as 1 can be that Mrs. Pierson has recovered.  Tell me about your poor cousin Mary when you write - everything. I cannot get the sad  thought of her from my mind. George Houtz is going south this week ifhe is possibly  able to travel. We will never see his face again, 1 feel almost sure. Poor fellow - he is  limping with? now, the kind poor W. had which is part of the disease. How much  distress there is in the world. His Mother has her share in parting with him and Han. 1  hope your grimalkin has become accustomed to her new house and is as contented as you  would have her. Your warm, affectionate nature needs? of these kind to lavish itself and  in lieu of a baby, a cat is a good substitute and not as responsible a treasure. Oh, you  ought to see how Willie is improving. -I have to make an entire new set of clothes for  him. 1 can hardly wait to hear from you again, my own precious Nannie. Clare sends  ever so much love to you and so does Grandma and so does Jimmy Millikin who's sitting  by me learning his lesson. Just think of old Col. Wharton being elected in preference to  Mr. Scott. Tell Sylvester his party should have done better. Give much love to all your  family for me and do write me. Your own sincere love,  Nannie







October 22, 1860  Mr dearest Annie,  There is a poorprospeet for an interesting letter tonight. I've been  cleaning house and am so tiredahd ? I can hardly hold my pen. The tacking  carpet is in my apartment and I'm always ready to? these? yearly cleanings  a great nuisance. I have just had a letter from Clare. She left on Saturday  morning. The doctor came up on Friday and they left early on Saturday  morning. You can imagine the dismal gap in our household. We do miss  them very much. I really do not know what I would do with myself if Willie  did not force me to take thought for him. The darling rogue, he ? little Paul  so much. He had become a sweet good boy before he left. Clare wrote that  Ellaree came around the ? she got home and gave her all the town news,  which was not very much. Kate Reily has a bouncing big son. three weeks  old and is out riding every day with Geo. She calls her son John. ? Will  Miller is in a sure decline has been failing ever since the birth of her baby.  Mr. Archman's son died of dysentery the other day. Lizzie Paster and  husband are boarding at Espy's and Sue Bucher don't know when she will  go to Lowerville. Ell is very fat. Clare and the Buchers are going down to  the depot to see you on Thursday. They seem to be better acquainted with  your arrangements than I, or perhaps Clare took it from my saying you  would go about the 25 or 26. Of course, you will write to me before you go.  Oh, I know you will have a lovely time, do not forget your Nannie dear. I  will think much of you and I do hope you will enjoy your visit. Dear Sarah  and Loulie, how delighted they will be. I can imagine Lou's enthusiasm.  We have just been reading those sweet little books of Aunt Friendly's. They  are really beautiful. What a wonderful woman your sister is and how much  good she must accomplish. Oh, for such power. You must give her a great  deal of love for me, Nannie, and many kisses to Loulie. Mary Wilson will  doubtless make her a visit when you return. How long does your "not a  great while" mean? I cannot imagine, please tell me. Thank you for you I  kind offer to get me anything in Philadelphia. I have not quite made up my  mind what I want yet and as Clare and sister Mary expect to go down next  month, I will trust by that time to see what I need, which I presume will not  be much this winter. I want a new dark silk, though, and will perhaps get a  black with a sprig of some kind. You spoke of getting one, I think, please  send me a little scrap when you do. I want to know the styles. Can we ever  manage to have dresses alike? Your blue cloth is beautiful. I had almost  made up my mind last winter to take a brown just like it. John had an
invitation to act groomsman for somebody this evening but will not tell who.  There are to be six others, a group wedding. He says he is bound to keep it  tiJ~ L\.. ~Q C.:?- secret. it i '! to be married next month. One of Clares Sunday school  scholars died while she was here and she is so much distressed about it. She  was at school at Lewisburg. Alice Casey, a lovely girl, seventeen years old;  Oh, how checkered our life, a wedding and a funeral. Your poor cousin,  Mary! not poor, now. Oh, the bliss of having entered that home. How  grateful we should be that she was so willing and ready to go. We can only  mourn for the poor, motherless children. I think so much of them, of poor  Carrie. What responsibility she has now. Mine does not the least compare.  I am easily realizing, Nannie, how you all feel and how you each day were  feeling in her last sickness. There is no anxiety like it. I feel so glad that I  went in with you to see her that day. We did not assume it would be so  soon, did we? You remember you and Sylvester were surprised when I said  I thought she was not far from the end. A saint in heaven, oh, is it not worth  all the suffering of body and the pain of parting with dear ones. Dear  Nannie, I know how sad another made you but oh, you should not talk such  sad things. I do not mean that, either, for I think we should all dwell more  upon them than we do, but oh, I will not go on now. Mr. Elliott! Geo. Rev.  was here yesterday, preached for us. He was talking about Mr. Beater of  Bellefonte, his peculiarities and eccentricities. I remember that someone  told me Mr. B. ? "Oh, he said that is a mistake. I saw him the other day. He  is very well indeed." Nannie, do you know he reads the sermon for Mr.  Levin every Sabbath night? Mr. E. told me also of Mrs. White, his sister.  He says she prides herself much upon her housekeeping. Last summer she  entertained six young ladies for some time, had no help in the kitchen or any  other department, entertained them well and was only absent from them an  hour at a time. So much for gossip. If that is true, I cannot understand it and  I do not desire to emulate her. One thing she could not have had, a baby to  take care of or- or- a cat. Mr. Beater was the man you could be tempted to  marry then, most obtuse damsel. You had said in a previous letter that there  was but one man you could be tempted to marry, whereupon I remember  that no right-minded woman would ever think of marrying more than one  man at a time. Perhaps I should have said or else launched out into a  discussion upon ? to make myself understood. You say, "he is not my  style," I would like to know who you have reference to. I was not thinking  of anyone in particular, but presume you meant George Lyon, as he is the  one apportioned me just now. I cannot believe Sterrett Lyon's wife told that  for she would be better informed. The lad,knows that it is only conjecture.  Geo. L. was down last week with Bucher Ayres and I suppose this will be
new food for the public. They were here part of two days. We had quite a  household as Clare and Doctor were here. I am reading Margaret Maitland  now, a secret Scotch story. Did you ever read "Friarwood Post Office?" by  the author of the Heir ofRedclyff? It is one of the prettiest stories I ever  read and I expect to. get at the housecleaning tomorrow again and indeediny  eyelids are very heavy now. We had a? procession the other night. ?  Green, Gen made a speech at the presentation of the banner in which he  exhausted the English language almost in using expressins of admiration and  it was the most horrid, miserable? you ever saw, a portrait of Lincoln, it  truly to be hoped, not a correct one. Dorsey disgraced himself and I do pity  him, for I believe he cannot leave off at the Huntingdon encampment. He  had an old ragged coat put on him and his own good one stolen while lying  out in a state of helpless intoxication. Poor Han! What must be her sorrow  at it all? Dr. Charlton was in Altoona all of Friday evening. He wanted so  much to go out to see you, but Altoona would not afford him a home. He  wanted so to see you home, too, and Father was much pleased to see you.  You must tell me all that occurs in your visit. Of course, you will let me  have long, weekly letters, darling, when you know I am so miserable with  out it and if affords me such pleasure You must tell me where to write. Will  you go to Carlisle this time? One year ago, I was preparing to go to H. and  the thought of being with dear Will formed half my pleasure. Now, I do not  care to go. Dear Will, it is so late I must turn myself away. I am loath to do  it. Give much love to all your family for me. Stroke your dear cat for me. I  send you a kiss which will encourage you in your fancy. I'm not making fun  of you. I'm glad you have her and love her so. Your own Nan.  60;&lt; )t. 4' Lf d­%.  3.-0. Ol.;;;W" !) ~ dd








November 1, 1860  My dearest Annie,  Presuming you would 'hdt'arrive at Princeton until the last of the week, I havedefertedwtit-mg  until now. MasterWiUie ispetchedupbeside me 'on his high chair, :amusing himseIfwith his  rattle, a dignity he arrived at in the past week. How long he will remain quiet will be seen. I  have been following you in my mind in the past week, the pleasant journey, hoping for you  clearer skies tha~we have had. The sun has not shown his face this week. Clare wrote me of  their having seen you and the sweet bonnet you gave her. She was so delighted to see you, no  wonder. If I could only have enjoyed it, too. But you pass me by with only a screech of the steam  whistle. Well, well, I'm not going to murmur. You will come to see me this winter and that is  far better than a few moments at the depot. I know the girls were delighted. Clare told me of a  party of which Becky Stewart was one. Where had they been? I know you will not get back in  two weeks, or four weeks, either, all those places. Why, Nannie, you could not get half through.  Please give your sister a great deal of love for me. Tell her how sorry I was that I did not see her  last summer. I send Loulie a kiss from my little Willie, which is the sweetest thing I could give.  Nannie, he is growing so winning. Today he is six months old and I'm sure you would think him  very bright. He loves me so, too. It is very amusing to see him cry for me. It is very sweet to  have him do so, even a baby's love is much. So much for the baby. Don't grow impatient over a  theme that interests me so much. I will listen with interest to as much about your cat. I want you  to tell Loulie about my baby sometimes. I imagine he looks like her, being handsomer than he  was in the summer. Well, I will desist now. I can scarcely believe that last night was Halloween.  The winter is just upon us. How swiftly the time rolls around. It will soon be gone. Each year, it  seems shorter and shorter. I used to dread the coming of winter and five years ago, the prospect I  have before me now, of spending the next six months closely imprisoned with nothing more  companionable than a six-months old baby, would have driven me almost crazy, but I really am  happier now than then, for I am doing at least something, however small. I anticipate much from  Mrs. Lowrie's society. She is really lovely. I want you to know her and you shall, this winter,  when you come down. We are quite good friends already. Samuel seems wholly and entirely  satisfied and indeed he might be. She can sympathize with him in all his intellectual pursuits and  it must be pleasant for him to see a smiling face at his table of an evening, however plain. I mean  the face, not the table. Mrs. L. has quite won my heart already. How I envy you your visit to  Lawrenceville. I always thOUght I might accompany you there. The dear Nassaus will almost  devour you. I hope sincerely that brother Gilliam will be home. Dear N annie, to think of it being  almost ten years since we left L. I do hope you will enjoy your visit in every part and dear  Nannie, you will tell me all, everything, however small, and whoever it concerns will please me,  but I do not want you to tax yourself or inconvenience yourself in the least for I1J.e. Only think of  me and love me. That is all the world to me, but you know it and I need not reiterate. You are a  little naughty, sometimes, as in the last letter, but I forgive you. There is something I want much,
but am almost afraid you will think it too much to ask. Your photograph, dear N annie, do, do  have one for me. I know Sylvester will want you to have it taken and then there will be one for  me. Now say you will, that I may hang -itup. Oh, the "Abbot" is such-a sweet story. Have you  read it? Poor Mary, Queen of Scots. What a life was hers. I amjust wrapped up in the story of  --her dismal fate. Who would be a queen? ~Nannie;- it will do you good-to have a change bf air "and  scene and it is so pleasant to have something to think about all the winter. We, in the country,  would rust out without an occasional freshening up. It is necessary to everyone. We grow selfish  and dull at home. It is so odd to me when I first go away, the contrast, the change. It takes a  month or two to thaw my benumbed faculties. Perhaps it is not so with you, though. I'm only  talking from my own experience and indeed, I've talked quite enough about myself here. There  - is so little that would interest you now, when you are surrounded by so much that is more  important. I will look with great interest for my next letter. Mother has just told me to give you  her love. I know this epistle is dull, extremely. The next may be better. How could you tear  yourself away from your dear Minnie, or trust Ma with the care of her feline majesty? I'll go up  and steal her. It would amuse my baby so. Father says she is certainly the prettiest cat he ever  saw. Han Green and I had quite a long talk on Sunday, not strictly Sabbath talk, either. Now  goodbye, my dear, dear Nannie. Wishing for you all that can make you happy. I am your own  Nannie. Now, do not forget my message to your dear sister and Loulie. I wish them both well.  Love and as always, your Nannie.  Box #442







November  5, 1860  My dearest Anllie, .  I've just" been overm the parlor indulging in a" good cry about dear W., hrought on by  meditating in the evening twilight. Dear, dear Will! I cannot believe we shall never see  him more on earth. Oh, wasn't he sweet and noble and good, darling, and didn't we love  him? Oh, was he not everything that was manly and winning and true and dear? There  never was one who possessed these qualities in such measure as he. My heart leaps up  when I think of his step, smile, voice, and oh, a thousand little things so tender. I dare not  dwell too long. It reminds me of that sweet song of Longfellow, which, though not exactly  appropriate, flashed upon my memory. "There are thoughts of which I may not speak.  There are dreams that cannot die. There are thoughts that make the strong heart weak and  bring a pallor into the cheek and a mist before the eye." The coming elections remind me of  dear Will's interests and recall the time, just two years ago, when he was so anxious for the  election, but I will not make you sad by talking about this. I feel better from having this  little talk to you. My heart was so full of sorrow over in the parlor. I was so glad to get  your little note on Saturday. It was so unexpected. I never dreamed of your writing to me  in Philadelphia. Thank you, it was more than I deserved. I do hope you are having a more  pleasant time now than when you wrote and do not doubt that you are. The dark clouds  have all rolled away and we have the brightest sunshine. I always have those lonely  feelings in the city, in sunshine or rain, all the same. There is much in seeing comfortable  homes all around and crowds of faces, having no interest in any. I would tire of the city  very soon, indeed. I often reproach myself for grumbling over my situation here all these  years, when perhaps I am more happy than I would be anywhere. Clare is constantly  wishing herself back in Alexandria and I in H. That is it, always, with us, never satisfied. I  guess we all have the positions best for us. Dear little Willie, to see him look up to me in  such sweet dependence. Oh, I do love him so. I must go now and take him. He cries for  me whenever I leave him. I expect his father and Uncle George down tomorrow, "the lover  who comes to see me so often." I don't know whether that word may not be a misnomer.  There is not much of the lover about gentlemen's "walk and conversation." We never  converse on such indifferent SUbjects. Do you want to know what we do talk about? Oh,  Kansas and the Com Laws. Oh, Nannie? my darling, now I am trifling. You will think I  mean something when I do not and will say, "Oh, this is for all the world Kunkel over  again." Really, George Lyon and I have never said one word on that subject since that time  in the summer. That little fuss I had with Clare worried me a little, but did not in the least  cause me to change my opinion ofG. L., and after Clare had met him here, she was sorry  she had ever said a word about him. She liked him so much she wrote me about it. Poor,  dear Clare, she judges so hastily and repents just as hastily. Her eyes have been so bad
since she went home, she has been in great agony. Dr. got her a kerosene lamp, thinking it  might be the gaslight that affected them. I have not heard whether she is better.  Wednesday evening here, my darling, and your letters not dispatched~ I know you will  excuse me when you hear it was&gt; a dreadful headache which prevented me. ' I could' hardly  sit up and talk with G.L. one bit while he was here. It was one of those blinding headaches  and I've had it more or less for a week past. I could not entertain G.L. one bit and I know  he will think me stupid as an owl, but we cannot help these things. I walked over to the tree  this evening - alone - and oh, there was poor W. 's name, fresh as new. I do not know why  my thoughts have been dwelling so constantly upon him for several days past. Even G.L.' s  being here did not dissipate them. Are you waiting for me to tell you something of that  gentleman's visit? There is nothing, except an increasing good opinion on my part. No one  could help having that who knew him. They have, all gone to prayer meeting and I'm  nursing my head and the baby alternately, putting in a word to you between times. Myoid,  aching head. We do like Mrs. Lowrie so much. She is really lovely and by no means  contradicts the agreeable things we heard of her. She and I have become very good friends,  but you need not be jealous. No one could ever take your place in any measure, dear, dear  Nannie. I have a private invitation to come straight up to her room at all times and a cozy  place it is. They are situated so comfortably and have everything so tasteful and beautiful  around them. Handsome pictures and easy chairs, elegant books and all the little things  which give a pleasant air to an apartment. They showed me a photograph which Lin sent  the other day of their bridesmaids and groomsmen, in which there is a very handsome  likeness of brother James. I know you will want to see it when you come down. Lenny  Wilson came home last night. I expect to have him in to play backgammon when my head  is better. He is so pleasant and entertaining. How fortunate you were in meeting Sue L. and  Lou A. in the city. It was queer that you did. I expect you will have a nice time at Becky  Stewart's when you come back. She is such a bright, friendly girl. You must give my love  to all the dear Nassaus when you see them. How it will recall your old school days to visit  there. Ellie expects to go back to school next week. We will miss her. She keeps the house  bright with her music. She plays beautifully now. I'm sure you would think so. Dear, dear  Nannie, I have just had your kind letter. I am sure you love me. I am very sorry for you  about your eyes. I know they are bad, but I'm sure you exaggerate a little about the  ugliness. We are always so sensitive about those little things, that we are inclined to  imagine them looking more than they do. I am glad you are going to consult a good  physician in the city. By all means, I would do so, and I do hope they will soon be better.  It is well your sight is not affected. Poor Clare - no letter from her this morning. I wonder  what can be the matter. Her eyes may be too bad to write. Dear Loulie - I know she is  handsome. I always thought her so. Give her much love for me and her dear mother, too. I  did not exactly understand her message about "choosing my rules." Won't you tell me what  she meant? Poor Sue Lawrence - what you said of her brought the tears to my eyes. She is
so sweet, patient and good. It was very mean in Sue Allen treating you so at the  Continental. How badly you must have felt at the St. Lawrence. I can understand all about  your homesickness. My poor, dear Nannie. I never want togo there again, although it is a  pleasant house. Cheer up, poor little heart - be brave. Allis well&lt; and wisely ordered. How  badly Sa'ade S. would feel in leaving her mother and Anna and how your Auntie -will miss  her in the house. I am sorry you will not have your photograph for me, but I'll not show  such greed, when I have so many. I must go now and attend to my dear, big baby. He is  very sweet and good and is quite fat and pretty, I think. You must tell me where to direct  your next letter. I will have to wait until you tell me, as I do not know how long you will be  in Princeton. I am so glad Mrs. Pierson is better. Give much love to your sister and a kiss  to dear Loulie for me and I am always, ever, your own Nannie.  Box #442








November 16, 1860  My dearest Annie,  Your letter has been a long time on the way. I had to wait until it came to know where to .  write you. It was not that I waited for you to write, for I know how hard it is when you are  visiting, but you said you would soon be home and I did not know but that you were now in  Philadelphia and I could not address Miss Annie W. Baker in the broad city, you know, such an  obscure, unheard of little damsel as she. I am glad you feel better, dear Nannie. Your last letter  had a more cheerful tone. I am so glad your eyes are better. Poor Clare, she wrote me her eyes  were worse and worse. Beside being very painful, the sight is becoming dimmer. Sometimes  she looks long at Paul and the doctor before going to bed at night, thinking she may never see  their dear faces again, she says. Oh, is it not a pity of her? My heart is too sad when I think of  her and it is always on my mind. If there could only something be done, but it is the nerve that  is affected and it seems almost hopeless. Those big, blue eyes of hers. Oh, it is sorrowful. I  cannot help hoping, though, that they will be better soon. Blindness is too fearful. She says  many other bodily afflictions she has ever had switch to utter insignificance when compared  with that. She overheard the Doctor tell Mrs. Wilson that her eyes never would be strong again  and they said, too, that horses often went blind in the same way, without anything to indicate  that the eyes were affected. But I will cry no more about this now. Your letter interested me  nuch. Poor Sa' ade Sterrett. I know how she feels. It seems to me I would not like to go back  to Lawrenceville again. The Nassaus are not agreeable to me - very. Sa'ade will not give up,  though, however homesick she may be. She has too much force of character or pride, rather, to  do that. She is a wonderful girl and Annie Criswell is much like her. I wonder how Annie likes  her school in the city. It is a pity they could not have been together. We had a visit from Mr.  and Mrs. Lowrie yesterday, from Warrior's Mark. I mean, they made many inquiries for you,  not about your marriage this time, thOUgh. Mrs. Lowrie could hardly believe my baby was the  same child she had seen four weeks ago. He had grown so fat and so bright, they can see, he  compares very favorably with her Willie. I am going to put him in short clothes soon. Of  course, you must always hear a little dissertation upon my baby. I hope you will not tire of it.  You know, he takes up so many of my thoughts. Mr. and Mrs. Lowrie intended staying all  night with me, but Mr. and Mrs. Lyon sent their word he would be there that day and Mr. L.  said he would be too disconsolate a bachelor to leave alone. I was sorry, for it is so pleasant to  have them here. We are lonely just now. Father went with Ellie to Canonsburg yesterday. I  will miss her much. She has become so companionable for me. How being left to oneself  develops the character. Having no one to depend upon at school, girls gain self-reliance and  strength. Ellie is greatly changed, but she is much of a child still. We were out to tea with  Samuel Lowrie and his wife yesterday. Mrs. L. is so plain, yet real sweet and interesting. I do  enjoy her society. I've told you so much about her, you will expect much and I th~ you will  110t be disappointed. That Mr. McCartney, whom we imagined in love with Mary~Sinith, was
married two weeks ago. I wonder ifhe really did propose to Mary. He was married to an  llltimate friend of Mrs. Lowrie, a lovely girl, she says. Dear brother Mahon was here last week.  He ogled me with that expressive glass eye which produces by no means an agreeable sensation  in the human frame. It is his custom, I believe, to address all his' conversation to young ladies  when there are any present. He spoke of having seen Sa'ade Sterrett at Lawrenceville, of Hugo  Hamill being his bosom friend. Would you dream he had one, either a friend or a bosom?  John is disappointed again about getting a situation. Robert Landerton wrote to him in the  summer not to engage himself anywhere. He wanted him to come in his office. The young  gentleman who was with him intended to leave, but he has considered to stay now and Mr. L. is  bound to assist him, so John is out again. Lin Cameron sent him a great many messages in  Clare's last letter about coming. She and John correspond, but don't ever mention it. I am not  to tell. Lin is a queer girl, I assure you. Oh, Annie,.I forgot to get that little ring when I was  with you and I wanted it so, just to wear it always for your sake. John Johnson is permanently  located in Lock Haven now, wonder if his joint is prospering. Clare said she never saw him in  fmer spirits than he is now - that does not look much like being in a decline. Sam Lawrence is  very much hurt at my not writing to him and no wonder. He seems much delighted about being  in the Leg. this winter. No wonder, he is a young man to have such honors, Chief Engineer of  two railroads, and a Mem. of Leg. Poor fellow, he might take naming from dear W. 's fate. He  is just as ambitious and enthusiastic as he, and as likely to be smitten with the same fell disease.  :::&gt;ear Nannie, I fmd I cannot write more now and my letter must be sent now, or it will not go. I  am not half done. Be sure to tell me where to send my next letter. Mother sends love to you.  Give much to your sister and Loulie for me and do write soon. This letter is but mumbling in  the land, but it cannot be helped. Now, do not be so sad, darling. I am so sorry for you and yet  I would rather see your mood like the last than your former letter, but oh, I wish you were  happy again. I know your great, great sorrow, but oh, it will all be well in the end. We will  meet dear, dear Will. Your own, Nannie.  Box #442







November 23, 1860  My dearest Annie,  You need not"apologiZe"~ for wriiingme so "early in 'the week." It'is jUst 'Friday. You  could not get much better,'I think. I hope my letter will reach you at Princeton. I have a  presentiment you will stay for Thanksgiving. I place myself in your position and I know I  would, by all means. What could be pleasanter than spending the day with your sister and  Loulie in New England style, too, as I presume they celebrate it. I am anxious to hear what  Samuel's brilliant mind will produce on this occasion. It is recommended that minister sings  the praises of the amiable virtue of love in these exciting political times. It is highly  necessary, I think. Do you hear anything of politics? Even here, out of the world as we are,  the subject is piping hot. I am with my Father and, of course, think the others have committed  a great error. Mr. Lowrie (Warrior's Mark) did not vote at all, which was not the wisest plan.  I think he is for Douglass. Oh, what possesses me to talk about it? I've been listening to a  discussion. We were at church tonight, and in our communion season, Mr. Moore from  Williamsburg assisting - he is not a favorite of mine. We have snow and almost sleighing.  Only think, one month till Christmas! The winter so much dreaded will soon pass away. I  have not the slightest desire to leave home this winter, much less to spend it in Harrisburg,  unless it would be to be company for dear Clare. She is suffering so much with her eyes now.  The cold air hurts them and she has to stay in and she has such dreadful headaches. I'll tell  you something in this connection, someday. Lizzie Gemmill has a daughter and imagine her  mother's surprise when the news came. The next day after Lizzie's baby came, Mr. Millikin's  brother's wife had a daughter, also. The brother who died, you know. The poor, young  widow. We have also a line from Bucher Ayres this evening, announcing the birth of a  daughter. The world will not soon become depopulated at this rate and I guess I've told you  enough on this subject. I was interested about Mr. Fields' party, poor man! Why didn't you  go? Oh, what a funny experience that was. You see what it is to be attractive. I never had  anybody to squeeze my hands in a carriage or look at me with one eye. It is much easier and  safer to be plain and unattractive, but it is a great temptation to wish to be beautiful and  fascinating. I should like to see that pretty woman you spoke of. I can, almost, from your  description. She must be lovely indeed. Princeton seems to be the place where such people  resort to. Not the beautiful, only, but intelligence and wealth there, too. Is there not sometime  you will tell me how your friends the Potters, Conners, etc. are? Where is Helen Morris now  and what of her? I am sorry you have headache again. What do you tell people when they  inquire if I am married? I'd like to know. There's but one plain answer, unless you say, "no,  but I guess she's going to be," which I do believe you do. The "exciting cause" has not been  down for some time, and when he is here, we are not lovers, but plain friends, and I don't  know that we will, but I'll not talk about it now. I guess Johnson is not really in a decline. He  Jnly fears it and I don't want you to think that "Lin and John" are really in a flirtation, but
they correspond. Lin would surely have more sense than to flirt with such a boy. I do not  near of the Camerons any more. Indeed, I hear very little of Harrisburg now. It is wonderful  how my interest in the dear town has cooled, so much of it went out with poor Will. Y ou __ say  you are "not going" to be seffish "and weakany longer," if you mean by that, indulgence in  talking about dear W., I thinK"you mistake. It is a relief to you and I love anything connected  with his memory. To think of the sorrows of another winter being already upon his grave. It  is a chilling thought to me, but oh, a blissful one to know he is beyond the reach of cold or  storms. Nothing incites my zeal so much as to reaching that heavenly place, as the thought of  having loved ones there. Sue Bucher is not yet started. Yes, she is equal to Mary Wilson. I  quite long to hear from her and to hear from Sylvester and your Ma and Pa. You seem so far  off from me, away down there. I am glad you are happier now, darling, but when will you be  home? Enjoy yourself as much as ever you can. You will have much that is pleasant to think  of this winter. I expect a full account when you get more time. Don't imagine all things will  not interest me. They assuredly will. I love you more and more and my greatest pleasure is in  thinking of you. That little, loving addenda you put in your letter was quite welcome and  refreshing. My letter is terribly dull and uninteresting. You must ascribe it to Willie, who sits  here on Grandma's lap begging me to have done my writing and take him. Mother sends her  love. She watched for your last letter with quite as much eagerness as I. I thought it never  would come. Give much love to your sister for me. Kiss Loulie and do write soon, not  forgetting to tell me where to write next time. Your devoted Nannie.  Box #442








November 25, 1860  My dearest Annie,  - - -  One month from today and Christmas will be here again!! Only think how time,is flying. I  feel like moralizing on the subject, but will not indulge the mood. When Christmas comes, I  always count the winter half over, and it seems impossible that it should have gone almost  already, when I dreaded it so. It is strange how short, each year, time appears, as we grow  older. I can hardly believe that in six weeks, I shall have lived twenty-seven years on this earth,  barren and fruitless years, but I will not talk on this subject, as I said I would not. In another  day, we will have Thanksgiving. It is our custom to have a family gathering upon that occasion,  aunts, uncles, cousins, etc., and this time, the jubilee is to be held at our house. John has  determined to have something more than ordinary on the occasion (at the dinner) and today he  came in with an immense, wild turkey. It is to be hoped slain a little more honorably than the  two he and Cal entrapped, two or three years ago, you remember. Here I was interrupted. Mrs.  Lowrie came down just to have a little talk with me, she said. Samuel was not with her and we  had a nice talk. Poor woman, she has a fearful cough. I told her about you and she wants much  to see you. I was so surprised on Sabbath to see Minnie Bispham step into church with Han  Green. Brother John, being in delicate health, came up for a two weeks hunting with Dorsey  and Minnie concluded to come with him. She is a lovely girl, I think. I want to get over to see  ~ler. Oh, I heard today that I was to be married to Tom Lyon in two weeks and that our George  was coming down this week to help with the preparations for the wedding. What do you think  of that? You had better hurry home, you know, your services will be required. I would have  given you longer notice if I had known it before. Oh, yes, I am to live at Bald Eagle Furnace,  too. You will visit me sometimes, won't you, dear? It will be so lonely there.  November 30th: You see how long it is since I commenced your letter, dear Nannie. I could not  send it until yours came and so they are sprawly, dry and uninteresting, and brief and, worse  than all, they are the means of calling down anathemas upon my poor, little innocent baby.  These dreadful letters of mine, suppose we stop them altogether. Surely, such a compound of  evil cannot bring you any pleasure. I am sure you must be mistaken when you say it is  agreeable to receive them, just as they are. If it were not for the awful result, I would be  inclined to stop them off for awhile, but as yours are life and health to me, I could not endure  the consequences. I know myself, they are all you promise them, but hoped you would be more  charitable than even 1. Dear Nannie, I do not wonder you are unsatisfied with myoid letters.  They are dreadful. You say, "write for a literary exercise." My darling, my mind is beyond  improvement. You oUght to talk about being dumb - look at me. It has been my life-long  burden that I know nothing at all, there never has been one particle of system in anything I've  ever been taught and the little mite I do about one little thing and another, is all hup:tble jumble  ill myoid hand. I know just nothing at all and by the comparison, you seem to me a very oracle
of wisdom. You aspirate yourself, I know. When those "specimen letters" come, they may be  oeyond my comprehension. Indeed, Nannie, I understand how being with intellectual people  shows to me our deficiencies and I approve of your determination to study and it would be the  greatest happiness to me to be able to join you. Oh, what would I not give to have a mind well-filled  with useful knowledge, which could be produced on any occasion for the benefit of others  and what an endless source of gratification it would be to oneself to have such a mind. I could  go on till tomorrow with my vain longings and aspirations, but it is of no use to me. It seems as  if the time had passed, and opportunity. That is the great disadvantage of living in the country,  there is nothing to impel one either by desire or necessity to require knowledge of certain kinds  and in the variety in which one would love to be. How painfully uncomfortable we must feel. I  never, never could set my nose in Princeton, unless they were all like your sweet sister, who,  with all her vast store of knowledge, bears with it a like amount of charity for poor, illiterate  damsels who are not so fortunate. I am glad your walk with "Ernest" was really nothing in  earnest. Excuse me, I did not mean a pun. It will be pleasant for you to think of when you  come home. Those musicals must be delightful. I was over to see Minnie Bispham this  morning. She and Han almost devoured me. It is pleasant to be received so. I could hardly  bear to tear myself away, either. It seemed so cozy and pleasant there. Han is so kind and  Minnie so sweet, but I was expecting his lordship, G.L., and I could not stay, you know.  George Porter came down yesterday with his family, to stay a couple of weeks, and told me  G.L. was coming today. He has not made his appearance, and I presume will not, as it rains. I  .un not a bit flustered about his coming. Can you tell me what that means? You can read these  things so much better than I, hearts, I mean, and indeed, I wish you would read mine.  Sometimes, I do imagine there is much in my heart for him, tenderness, esteem, yes, almost  love, I think, and it makes me sorry, for I do not want it to be so. I've been fighting and  fighting with myself and, you know, have never acknowledged it, but a stray fear comes over  me that it can be so. I do not want to marry and shall not, if my conscience and heart permit me  to keep all my feelings within myself. If he never would come across my path, perhaps, I might  extinguish what may now be enkindled. I try to convince myself again and again that is  nothing, but after each visit, I feel my weakness and my thoughts and go back to his pleasant  voice and smile and his nice, sensible views of things. Though I cannot think of looks of  tenderness or anything like that, those I never receive, and how the gentleman regards me at the  present time, I am as ignorant as you, dear Nannie. The reason I have never talked of it is  because I have not yet acknowledged to myself that I care for him and he never mentions  anything of the kind to me and I have no right to picture his visits into those of a lover, have I?  Neither have I any right to suppose that he does not consider my answer to him as final, now  have I? "Honestly," as Sue Bucher would say, I forgot to say that my reluctance to having this  thing go any further is not from any objection I have to him as a man, for I believe him to be a  Christian, indeed, and know I am not desired, but just because I am satisfied as I am, and unless  I would feel that such a step were wholly and entirely necessary to my happiness, wouldn't  dhink for a moment of taking it. Now, dear Nannie, I have told you everything, I have nothing  '4-
reserved. I do not know my own heart, but unless I love very intensely, there is no danger of  your Nannie. Your love gratifies me more than anything in the book world and your last letter  made me shed tears of joy, my own darling Nannie. I know you love me and it makes me so  happy. I feel just as you do C!bout society sometimes. It is unsatisfactory. What is there in it  after all, unless W~ ~a)l choose pur own few faithful ones,and how few ' they are. Mr. and Mrs. ,  LOWn'e have gone up to Colerain to spend the night. Kate and May were here yesterday. Did  you spend a pleasant Thanksgiving? We had only twenty friends to dinner. It was very  pleasant. Minnie and Han are coming over to spend Monday with me. Oh, about Clare, yes,  darling, it's true, but don't for your life hint or breathe it to Clare or anybody. Nobody suspects  and nobody knows but Mother and 1. Is that right or am I confused - or should it be, Mother  and me? Her eyes are very bad. Minnie Bispham has a cousin, just sixteen, whose eyes are just  so. Oh, my heart aches for dear Clare. Minnie is very sorry she will not be home when you are  in Philadelphia. She regrets so much she did not know you were there, that lovely week you  spent shopping. Sue Bucher has not started yet. I thInk Sue Lawrence and her mother have not  yet returned. I should not wonder if Mary Wilson were contemplating marriage. She is so quiet  and sly about things. She would not mention it and it is generally the case when girls declare so  vehemently their intention of resuming former? that they break it. Dear, little Lou, if I might, I  would return her kiss fourfold. I am glad you are coming home, darling. You seem so far  away. I want to hear from Alleghany once more. Enjoy yourself all you can. I wish you could  stop in H. and see poor Clare. You cannot complain of the length, can you? Only write me  ')oon and more and everything and believe that my love for you is in a mighty deluge and fire  and everything. Oh, I love you, love you. Take care of these letters, darling. Remember me to  Beckie Stewart and believe me your own Nannie. I am sorry for your poor eyes, but still think  you overstate the disfigurement, as you understate all your shame. My baby sends you a sweet  kiss, forgiving your expressions about him, dear pet. Aren't you sorry now? Good night,  sweet, Nannie, your Nannie. Do not forget to get that picture for me. What does it matter about  your eyes? They will not show.  Box #442









December 11, 1860  My dearest Annie,  What does this d~y recall? It just flashed over me when I had written it. The "eleventh of  December," dear Will. You remember the little blue hearts and the story about the marriage?  1858! Two years ago. I've just come over from the parlor, where I have many a quiet, little cry  in the evening twilight about the past, the dreadful past. You remember Penny Lawrence and  that story. I need not speak of it. I am imagining you now at home, at Allegheny, where you  are, I hope, satisfied and at rest. There was a spirit of homesickness and yearning pervading all  your letters. It is remarkable that a young lady who lives so retired and quiet a life, should not  enjoy to the fullest extent what is placed before her and for what she is constantly longing when  at home. Dear Nannie, I understand it fully. Never was I so well satisfied with my dear home  and never did I so much dislike the idea of leaving it for visiting or anything like that. It seems  to me I never could leave my home. The idea of going to Harrisburg would be very distasteful  to me, notwithstanding my great wish to be with dear Clare, but I could not bear to go back there  and not fmd dear Will to welcome me. It is a wrong feeling, perhaps, but when one is home so  long, the thought of meeting strangers becomes unpleasant. I think I could settle down in some  quiet nook in the world, perfectly satisfied with the possession of the few, dear friends I have,  with no desire to extend the acquaintance a single one, couldn't you? I can imagine how glad  Sylvester and your Ma and Pa are to have you home again. It is worth going away to have such  happy meetings. Tell me all you did and saw, won't you, dear, and everything that is new in  anything. Quite a moderate wish, is it not? If I could only see you a little while or a great while,  which would be a great deal better. George has promised me to come down and stay a few days  to help take care of Willie, while I go up and see you and sister Mary, but it will be sometime in  the future, as he has just now made a visit of two weeks with the children. I suppose it would be  impossible to have you down here for a little while yet. You might have stopped, going home,  but you spoke so positively of taking a straight streak there, I was afraid to mention it. Oh,  wouldn't you have much to tell me? I was glad you told me so much of what you were doing in  Philadelphia. I could just imagine it all. Tell me how you liked the widower Scott. Has he  much to say or is he hard to entertain? Was it not a good deal for Mr. Scott to take a lady to the  opera? What did McHaffey say? I will presume it was unfavorable, if you do not say. It is a  dangerous business to do such a thing. I would not like you to question many of my  acquaintances. I hardly believe you will get home till the last of the week, if then. You will be  so charmed with M.S. 's society and the young ladies, that you could not possibly leave. I do not  remember of being better pleased with many on so short an acquaintance. Oh, what a sentence.  I wonder if you came across Sue Bucher, encountered in the street, I mean, for she does not  know where you are staying, I presume. She is in Philadelphia now, as well as Aunt Maria and  ~ue. Tell me if you found Em Boleson, too. In a letter from Clare this evening, she says  Harrisburg is lovely this winter. I guess she finds it so, sitting with folded hands. The only one
who came in often in the evenings is Margaret Cameron. She has become quite a frequent guest.  I wonder how her visit with Ned is progressing. We never hear of that now. Clare's eyes still  are very painful and the sight not improved. \Yhat you told me of Beckie Stewart's friend ~ I  wrote her by way of encouragement. Yes, Mary McKinley and Will Dock are married, awful  risk. Does it not seem as if the girl were crazy? Miss Packer is to be married tomorrow, her  wedding to be quite a brilliant one. I should like to have been at the opera with you, as neither  of us had ever seen or heard one. Minnie Bispham plays some from the Sicilian opera. It must  be grand. She never heard it at the opera, though, being too conscientious to go. I think she  must have great force of character to resist, when she is so enthusiastically fond of music and  having two young ladies at her house visiting last winter, who never failed to attend, Han and  Dunn White. You remember her at school. They tell me she has grown a beautiful girl. I think  it is right to go once or twice to see what it is like, but presume it is as objectionable as theater­going  in the eyes of good people. Shouldn't you like to have been in Philadelphia Christmas  time? In some respects it is pleasant, in others not. I always forgot to ask you, Nannie, did you  stay at the H. Lauseme going down? And so I am in love. You think you pretend to read me. I  will neither refute nor acknowledge it, as I know so little about it myself, but there is this, my  case is by no means desperate and unless it grows so, there's no danger. Furthermore, you speak  as if such were the case. You would henceforth and forever have nothing more to do with your  Nannie. Such a catastrophe would be enough to prevent me from ever indulging in any emotion  of the kind, but I understand you, Nannie, fully, and I would indeed be miserable if I thought  anybody would steal you away from me. I don't think anything on earth could have power to  make me more so. I suppose the day will come someday, though. You think now it will not, but  those feelings you have now about dear W. will make themselves into holy, calm thoughts of  what once was, but is now past, without any sacrilege to him or to your own most sacred  thoughts. My own darling, I would not encourage my heart in the belief that all my life  happiness went out in that night which took him from me. No one could have cherished dear  Will's every wish or thOUght more than I, and yet I believe he would not have had you grieve for  him so and go mourning all your days for him. It is a bitter thing to have a life so pure and  bright so clouded in the beginning. You should be looking hopefully forward to a long life of  usefulness on earth, when to me you seem often to be longing for the last hours and the life  beyond. You make me shudder and start? things like this. You write me and my eyes are  blinded by tears whenever I think of it all. Oh, my own darling, look more hopefully upon what  is to come and believe that God has much in store for you of joy and love and usefulness. That  opinion of Beckie Stewart's physician about your eyes was just what you supposed, was it not?  That they were tumors? They will go away, I hope, without anything more. I am thankful it is  not your precious sight. Oh, I love you so tonight and I could lay my hand where I love most,  your own soft breast, my own resting place. Willie sends you some kisses, his father sends his  love. They are still here, the weather not permitting them to go home. Shall I have my letter in  the good, old time, Friday? It will be pleasant to get back to old habits, though our letters come  at two, instead of the evening and we miss the pleasant evening watch. God bless you, my own
darling. Give a great deal of love to your Ma, Pa and Sylvester for me. It will be so nice to hear  from them again. Your own sincerely devoted, till death, Nannie.  Box #442







December 17, 1860  My dearest Annie,  After being twice disappointed, you may be satisfied of the warmest welcome your letter  received. Welcome home again, dear Nannie. My heart was glad when I saw the old, familiar  postmark. Nothing in the world has such power to move me to restlessness as your letters being  behind hand. I imagine everything evil and nothing good, but indeed, have no reason to  complain. You have been a dear, faithful good girl and I will not soon forget it and I'm all the  more indebted to you because of your precious frame of mind, just at present. With such a  momentous question (whether or not you shall accept the widower) weighing upon you might, in  a measure, have merited my leniency. Dear Nannie, did he propose? I think it highly probable,  no, I don't think it probable, either, that he proposed, for he would choose your own home for  that, but I think it probable he rounded you as to the probability of success, and I know he must  be in love with you. I'm assured of that. He could not help himself and if you are only teasing  me about his having done so, I know it is in his heart, only waiting for the proper time and place  and the least sign of encouragement from the lady fair. That, I could never imagine, but then I  don't know him and it may not seem so strange to others as to me, but what did you say coming  home from Mr. Wadsworth's? You might have been generous enough not to have stoppedjust  there. I'll remember that, too. Well, well, I am glad you had such a nice time. It was pleasant  _ ... me to think of your enjoying it so. I did not suppose Beckie Stewart had much to trouble her  in this world. Was she in love with Lou Hall? That movement of his in turning his back was  very like him. The general impression about that affair is that the love was mutual and that it was  great. Couldn't Saade fmd a better beau than your Wyeth to flirt with? I admire B. Stewart very  much. No wonder the uncle would not part with her, married or single. Tell me how the little  children are. I am interested. The last news is that Ned is engaged to May C., but desperately in  love with Miss Nath or Gnat. I don't know how to spell it. Do not say he would be just the one  for you. I'm sure he would not. It was George Lyon who heard over in Bellefonte a couple of  weeks ago that Mary Wilson was engaged. I don't believe it, though. People are always having  those reports about them. At least, those who are in any wise, fascinating. Why did not you go  on with your preamble about Miss Baker? I was very much interested, indeed. Why did you turn  it off again upon my poor, little innocent baby? The age you speak of is past with me. I have  experienced the feeling and now I have come to the sensible and most wise conclusion that it is a  real world we live in and by the time you take care of a squalling infant seven or eight months,  you will do the same, I am sure. There is very little romance or very little to encourage it, in  nursing a baby. I wouldn't for the world extinguish what there is in my nature, if I could help it.  You are saucy, Miss Baker, about my affairs with George Lyon, do you know it? Who said I was  trembling, lest my decision might have been taken as fmal and he now trying to school himself  :+0 indifference? No, I wish it almost was the case and yet I do not. I never, never had such a  \.~11e to tell what is in my heart. The only conclusion I can come to is that is not indifference.
~ T lU will wonder what had made this close searching necessary. Nothing, only I have an idea of  "vnat may be coming and I don't want it to come. I do not want to make any change in my life,  for I'm satisfied now, actively, that I have, something to do, yet this cannot last forever and when  my occupation's gone, the old dissatisfaction will, in all probability, return: . The yearning fof' &lt;  something to love, I guess it is part of our nature. When one feels this and sees the sanle iIi"  another and has the assurance - oh, pshaw, I will not talk about this. I believe you do not like it.  What a pity it was that you did not see Sue Bucher. She would be so disappointed. Aunt Maria  and Sue expect to come home this week. I have nearly commenced a letter to Sam, but it may  never be fmished. I really hesitated in writing it. He is fastidious. He told Clare, not long ago,  that he had lost all faith in women since Annie Porter failed in her promises. Is it not a shame for  me? If I only had one of your "specimen" letters, there would be no difficulty. By the way, in  that fashionable paper - what a nice fashion for me. Hurry up those grand letters. I will break up  my intellect into understanding them, if possible. I am satisfied with what I get, if there were  only more. I saw Han Green yesterday. She expects to visit John Bombaugh in January, from  there she will go to see Minnie and Lizzie Dorsey. I don't know when Minnie will be married.  Her parents object and it is a pity. I expected to see Minnie again, but I had a very severe attack  of? sore throat and have hardly yet recovered. I'm so afraid of that awful diptheria for Willie.  The dear pet is not in short clothes yet. It is more of an undertaking than I imagined, as  stockings, etc. must be prepared. He grows so fast. It is really wonderful, but he is not  l"'~ndsome, I guess, but he is a darling and loves me so. I have an invitation to go up with him to  ~ --1,·s. Lowrie's Christmas week. Want to meet you there, would be delightful, but home, I guess,  is the best place for babies. When do you think you will go? It will he real ungenerous to go  without coming to see me. Mr. and Mrs. Lowrie have gone out home to spend two weeks. Mrs.  L. is not feeling well, dear innocent creature. I like her so much. She is a model minister's wife.  She's so guileless and free from any pride or airs she might have. She wishes much to see you.  It is so pleasant for me to have her run in socially as she does. I do so enjoy a talk with her.  Have you heard from Minnie or Martha Elder lately? Lib Elliott is coming to Spruce Creek to  board at the hotel there. She fmds it too lonely up in the parsonage. She goes about a great deal  and I guess she fmds it inconvenient to get from there. She is, I hear. Fan Stewart had a baby  two weeks ago, which is now dead. Clare's eyes are still very painful. She has them bandaged in  the evenings generally, poor thing. They expect to have a grand time at the inauguration and are  already beginning to talk about it. I think in the present state of things, they might let it pass in  moderation. Mrs. Scott and Aunt Rose are in great trouble about their children in the South.  Their letters show in what dreadful apprehension they are living constantly in. Must people  march so blindly on to destruction? I wish it was settled one way or another. We hear so much  about it that we are constantly excited. How long were you away altogether? I forget just when  you started, but it was about the thirtieth, was it not? Tell me little things just as they occur to  you. Everything will interest me, even if you think it will not, but a revelation of your heart's  ; \lost feelings will be most acceptable. I like the strain you were on when you stopped so  uJruptly. Give much love to all your family for me. I long to see you and them. Tell me what
u are going to do now, to sew, or read or study. When will your labors commence and how  hluch midnight oil you consume. How is Mary Smith and also Martha Martin? We have a new  pretty moss basket in the window. It is a real pleasure. The baby blows when he sees a candle  and I tell him. Isn't that precious? I will anxiously await my next. -Dole! it come on Friday. I  cannot wait till Monday again. I cannot bear this arrangement. Our letters must be in the night  before, and we-get them -at tWo o'clock and it spoils the expectation of the news. With fondest  love, your own Annie. A kiss for you!  Box #442









December 24, 1860  My dearest Annie,  - - " ,  I am afraid your Christmas letter will proveyrery unsatisfactory, asl am too much imder the"  weather to do anything to please anybody. I wonder how people do take cold. I am seldom out of  the house and yet have had colds and coughs enough this winter to undermine an ordinary  constitution, and at present, am feeling just as miserable as one can feel. I am almost? and to  make matters worse, my mind is very ill at ease about my baby. He gives evidence of croup  stored away someplace, that awful enemy to children. I spent last night listening to his oppressed  breathing. Oh, who would be married? It seems to me it is a life of constant anxiety from one  stage to another. It certainly is such. He was kept in hot water constantly about the children and  grandchildren. Poor Clare's eyes are so bad and she is so sick and Paul has another of those  dreadful attacks of congestion. Sue Porter has been ill bed two weeks with palpitations of the  heart - so it goes. Each one has his burdens of woes and we must naturally make them our own.  Now, I will be done, I guess, with this dismal strain - no, not yet. This horrid post-office  arrangement. I never dreamed of being situated this winter in thinking how I should spend the  long, dreary evenings. This always loomed up mightily and now I fmd myself straining every  nerve to catch the sound of the stagecoach that brought me so much happiness even yet. You  cannot be more dissatisfied than 1. Now, two pages are wrong for this. My hope for the future, in  lis life, does not compare in dolorousness with yours. Why, Nannie darling, you are certainly  wrong in giving way to such sadness. Only believe there is brightness for you and it will come. It  is always better to hope and if the enemy does come, to fight it bravely. To my mind, nobody  could be more delightfully situated than my Nannie, an idolized daughter and sister, every  practicable wish granted, admired by all who know her, loved by many, very many, the sweetest,  loveliest home on earth, lovely. If outward things could make me happy, you have them. But I  know, of course, whence all your sorrows spring. Oh, if poor Will had known one half of the love  you bore him, how happy he would have been. But why do we sigh and regret what is past? God  disposed it all and he is wise. We sin in doing so. I have often cried that I did not tell him all, but  it IS best as it is. Dear Will! His memory will linger when all else fades. Clare wrote me on  Saturday that as soon as Aunt Maria returned, she would get those letters and send them to me.  They have all Will's papers and valuables in their care, in Aunt Maria's absence. Clare says she  will be glad to be relieved of them, as it is quite responsible. Dear W. When I went to H. last  winter, Paul's Christmas tree was still standing and when W. came in, he took me over and  showed me "our tree," as he called it. I remember so well, his throwing of his brown coat on the  sofa and sitting on one of those camp stools, asking me questions, etc. and, one time, I shall never·  cease to be sorry. We were in at Bishop's, at a party, when W. came in to spend the evening with  me, and, supposing I was only calling in there, he permitted me to be sent for, and when I told him  1 was at a party, how he jumped up, begged my pardon and I suffered him to go. Why did I do it?  Jut, oh, I will not recall these little things, numbers of which are as vivid to me as if they had but
lust happened. You will have a sad Christmas gift, if my letter be considered one. Oh, I forgot to  ,ay that my letters do not reach me on Friday, the way you send them now. Do please write a day  earlier. I almost took my bed last time, I was so disappointed. If you -could experience the .sinking  of heart I feel when they do not come, you would be very careful. Dear, precious Nannie, how I  love you more and more every year of my life. Oh, this past year. What asad one it ·has been to  both of us and what a change it has wrought in my nature and life, the care of Willie, I mean, and  the sorrow of Will's and Sallie's death. Poor, dear Sallie. I dream so often of her, three nights  successively. I dreamed of seeing her dead body when George was here with the children. It was  a constant reminder. She was such a good, affectionate mother. George and they are going over  to spend Christmas week with Mrs. Lowrie. Mr. L. will be absent. Oh, I hope the new year will  be a happier one for both you and me, Nannie. I do not believe what you prophesy of me will  come true. I have no wish or inclination for it now. Your picture of our separation made me very  miserable and there were some bright, falling drops to testify it, just at the thought of such a thing.  What the reality would be, I don't want to know, and will not seek to know, as you seem to be  doing. You are constantly assuring me that if I ever should think of marriage, from that moment,  you will have no more to say to me. You seem to like to dwell upon this. If there were danger of  it coming true by my action, I would be more unhappy. Well, you will say, I am "queer" about it.  Let me do as I will. Your "susceptible" friend, indeed, Nannie. I think you are mistaken. There  are very few persons with whom I'm taken, very indeed, too few. I am always suspecting  something is wrong, some trait concealed, etc. It is not pleasant to be so and as you, I presume,  nagine I think G.L. perfection, it is a mistake. He has great faults and yet I like him. No man  has a right to be so bashful. It takes away much of his manliness, etc. You need not make such -­fun  of me about the widower Scott. I think if you examine my letter, you will see I did not  imagine you in love with him. It was all the other way and I thought it likely he had proposed, but  did not dream of your accepting him. I know you better, that was the reason I suppose I took it so  coolly. Clare says "people say May Cameron is preparing her bridal trousseau" and she believes  it. It's such an old story though, I don't think of it again and I don't believe for a moment that  Mary Wilson is engaged. We would certainly hear to whom and there's no new star in Bellefonte.  Mr. Barnard has accepted the call over there. Did you know it? Oh, but he is a good preacher.  Between you and me, I wish we had him. I guess he thought it would be pleasanter for Mrs.  Barnard, who is soon to be. The latest is Dorse Green's marriage!! They say he is really going to  marry Mary Gregg, soon, too. Oh, what a risk. How can a girl be so blinded? She cannot help  knowing his character, as he is so well-known in Huntingdon. Han told me on Sunday that she  had written you, when I delivered your message. I don't know when Minnie Bispham will be  married. I expected to see her again. Oh, I believe I told you that before. Sue Bucher was in  Germantown when I last heard of her. Ell has been in Marritten. Will Dock has his own room  furnished at his father's and they live there, as the old gentleman has to support them, as well as  another son and his family. I suppose he thinks it better to have them all under one roof. I don't  know when Lill Kess is to be married. It is said the time of her wedding will determine her  ather's own. She despises Bell Todd. Her father is only waiting till Lill is out of the way. How
unkindly the world talks. I don't hear anything of John and Lin. I guess there is nothing. Oh, I  .orgot to tell you, in Clare's letter, she said, "When will Annie Baker be home? Here I've been  sitting up in state, waiting for her every day to stop in," never dreaming that you were snug at  home nursing your cat. Pretty Minnie, how I .would loye to see her. I will take care to make  . en.ough fuss, even if it is not sinGere. rm astonished at .~ylvester b,eing so infatuated. Oh, "what  does Father think of Buchanan these days?" why, upholds him still. Don't speak to me on the  subject. You people have elected Lincoln now, see the result. It is only from private letters that  we know really what the excitement in the South is. Mrs. Scott and Aunt Rose are almost  distracted. It is fearful the apprehension they are living in. I mean, Northerners at the South, but I  guess we will not decide the question. I hope it will all result in good yet. I have just been down  playing "Kriskringle" for Tim, Ellie and Rose, who are all here. It is a pleasure to imagine their  delight in the morning at the opening of the stockings. They are all sound asleep. Happy  childhood. I am so sorry sister Mary could not come down. She was afraid to venture out with  Anna. I had so many nice, little Christmas presents in contemplation, but did not get even one  made. You have no idea how constantly my time is occupied. I am never free a moment, for  when Grandma has him, I know she tires. Oh, another Christmas Eve. Where shall we be? The  moon is so bright and beautiful tonight. I wonder if you see it. I wish you had some of my nice ?  and? No wonder Mary Smith and Clara dislike going into the country. I could not bear it. I shall  not wish you a "Merry Christmas," but a happy one, my darling, as happy as you can be. Give  much love to all your dear family for me and do not forget to let me have my letter on Friday.  Tour own trusting, loving, Nannie.  Box #442
