Transcript















































ANNA'S DIARY - 1894  In Ma's bedroom, Jan. 18th, 1894: Ma in bed 14 weeks today. She sat up yesterday 2 ~  hours, shining bright in the morning, but became much exhausted after long sitting. Has  been bright today, reading and knitting most of the day. Medicine taken on Monday, still  quiet, appetite returning. Garfield tea this a.m. in hope of a movement tomorrow. Woke  at 4:00 this mom with worry about Ma, but as is generally the case, found her quite  bright. She is so thin and pale, eyes weak and still expectorating a little from grippe.  Mrs. Wigton called this morning, very sweet. Ma said today, "Poor Dr. R's misfortune is  worse than mine."  January 29th: Ma better since last writing, quite good appetite and no pain in being lifted  from bed. ? and ? acted like a ? on? Sitting-up an hour each day and very tired in that  time. More cold and increased cough. She said today, "I doubt if I shall ever walk. I  feel so feeble." She is so very thin. Dr. R. here on Sat., thought her doing well. First  snowstorm today. Annie Irvin here this afternoon, bright and agreeable, as usual. Busy  on green dress.  Sunday, February 4th, 1894: A bad snowstorm today, did not go to church. Ma took a  good breakfast but has been full of aches and pains since. Sat up twice yesterday. Last  movement of bowels on Thursday, Feb. 1st  • She said the other day that perhaps her lame  leg was a judgment for dancing in New York. Heel again aching and not entirely healed.  Monday,5th: Finished dress on Friday. Ma much interested in its completion. Wore it to  town on Sat. shopping. When I returned, dear Ma said, "You were a good girl to come  back so soon. I have missed you!" Selected an invalid's commode which came today.  Ma much pleased with it. Leg pains today. She sat up not much over an hour. Was up  two times yesterday, took her dinner sitting up. Martha M. here last Thursday, told us her  troubled. Mary Hewit, Clara and Mrs. Smith here last Wed. A cup senna tea on Friday  and cup last evening and still no movement of bowels. ? tonic tonight, will see what  tomorrow will bring.  Thursday, 15th: Bowels satisfactorily moved today. Ma tired as usual. She tried to  stand, but her leg was so painful what at the bedside, she exclaimed, "For God's sake, put  me back to bed!" She was in a moment able to be lifted to her chair, where she sat an  hour. Yesterday, she said, "I must always have been rather a small eater for when at  home, I used to be thin! Breakfast before the others and would leave the table and go to  my knitting." A day or two since, when I expressed worry over the ways of maids, she  said, "Think of all I had to endure during my long housekeeping. Will Johnston here  yesterday, 3 rd time.  Tuesday, 20th  : Ma quite bright yesterday and today, sat up both days and took her dinner  in the chair. Up twice yesterday, once today for the reason that I spent the-afternoon at  . . the dentis( s. Ma glad to see me when-I came home, although she says the girls take good  'care of her. Yesterday, when I told her how Mrs. Jackson said t'was wonderful she  should be so contented, she replied, "Why should I be otherwise? I have all I want."
Went to see poor Mrs. Findley yesterday and found her very miserable and Mary very  sad, but courageous. Felt I had much to be thankful for in the improved health of dear  Ma. Called today on Mrs. Himes and did some shopping both days.  Sunday evening, February 25th  , 1894: Saddened today by the thought of what Mary  Hewit must be suffering in the critical illness and possible death of her husband. Ma, as  usual today, somewhat rheumatic. Was worried last night about her swollen feet,  possibly caused by sitting up more than usual. They were all right this morning.  Saturday evening, March 3rd  , 1894: Just received work ofB. Hewit's critical condition.  Poor Mary! Was much discouraged yesterday by Ma's failure in her effort to stand. She  said her well leg felt as if there was nothing there. She has been suffering from  rheumatism in leg this week yet, on the whole, she seems stronger. This has been a  spring day. Don't want to see spring because Ma cannot be in the garden. Went to  Hollidaysburg on Thursday, fITst time since early in October. Bowels moved, Friday, 2nd  •  Sunday, 11 th: Ma sat up 3 hours today without much fatigue. Last week had an attack of  rheumatic neuralgia, which still lingers in her leg, making it more powerless. Mrs.  Findley died Thursday morning, was buried yesterday. Poor B.S. Hewit died yesterday, a  rest from great suffering. Riley told me today that he might leave. So sorry, more care  forme.  March 21 st: Ma tolerably well, but lame side still aching and not yet able to stand. Last  Wed. came Hannah G. on her birthday. She remained till Friday. On Monday previous,  Mrs. S. M and W. S. Ross and Kate Kinkead were here. All through Ma very bright.  Trouble with her medicine last time, takes more tonight. All week and today Riley and  planted hot-bed. Ma better today.  March 31 st: After several days of pain in her sore side, she attempted standing today with  more success than before. Martha came yesterday bringing oranges and we went to  Altoona together shopping and had a nice time. Ma sat up almost 3 hours today without  special fatigue. It has been very cold, but today seems more spring-like.  April 7th  : Gently falling moisture all day, Ma consequently complaining of pain in the  lame hip and knee. Yesterday she sat up four hours, the longest since she has been sick.  She looks well and seems well and stronger, all but the leg, which is worse. Judge  Gardner here today. Mrs. Wigton and her niece, Mary, here this week, Martha G. twice  here. Walked up to see Mrs. Johnston yesterday, called on Mary Hewit on Monday last  and saw also the new baby at the? like a little Japanese doll. A new parson preaches  tomorrow. Ma today finished brown blanket. Says she will now hem napkins.  May 7th  , 1894: Mr. Stiles gives general satisfaction. He called to see Ma last week and  was much pleased with her and our home. Ma was much gratified with his visit. She has  -been quite miserable for two weeks with painfully "sensitjve1imb. The sciatic nerve  --- ~ -seems much affected: This afternoon she seems wretched witllan attack of indigestion.  ,....- -- _ •• __ H' ---'. - -"'--Her general health--hasbeen quite good and she has been sewing on towels;-napkins and
tablecloths. I have been able to see but little of her on account of housecleaning.  Finished upstairs on Thursday last. Basement and stair carpet remain to be attended to.  Had a fearful headache Friday which kept me in bed on Sat. Am scarcely well yet. Riley  planted annual flower seeds today. Ma told me the other day how she had sat in a  hogshead Sunday afternoon when she was a very young girl and read Baxter's Saint's  Rest. She said yesterday when I read? Hill of America from her, H. ? a weak man!  May 18th, 1894: Dear Ma slowly recovering from an acute bilious attack which  commenced on the evening of May 7th with great pain in right side and nausea all night  and was succeeded by stupor and delirium, most painful to witness. Dr. afterwards said  the pressure on her brain was so great he feared paralysis. By Monday, her hallucinations  were away and her mind became clear. I wan no longer married and she was not away  from home and her lame side much better. Dh, how thankful I am to have her still with  us! Friends very kind and many offers of help! Mary Hewit spent Monday afternoon  with us, Annie? also and Mrs. Armstrong here. Finished housecleaning on the 11th.  Mrs. Stiles and Mrs. Rorshen on Tuesday.  June 15th, 1894: Came home from a happy afternoon in the park yesterday with 2  Hollidaysburg ladies to fmd Ma quite miserable and incoherent with an entire? of both  bowels and kidneys. Sent for Dr. this morning who said belladonna had not agreed with  her, gave her? powder today and hope she may be better in the morning. The same  pressure on her brain as six weeks ago, wandering and excited. An anxious day for me.  June 26th: Ma soon recovered from attack which was partly caused by Dr. trying  belladonna for rheumatism. She is suffering now with weak eyes, left one very sore. So  patient. She sits up twice a day now in the mornings at the balcony door. We went today  to look for a rolling chair for her. The weather very hot which weakens her somewhat.  Dh, that she could be made strong and free from pain!  August 11th: A long gap! Ma continues about the same, always pain when she is lifted.  Dr. has been trying? without marked results excepting on her kidneys. The rolling chair  came last month but little use is made of it. So anxious for her to see the beautiful  garden. Mary Linn with us 2 weeks.  August 29th, 1894: Have been trying electric battery on Ma for a week. She says she  feels better, but she is not yet able to stand. Yesterday, she seemed so frail and feeble  that I went to bed feeling very ~depressed. Today she had been bright and the Dr. thinks  she is stronger. Yesterday was a full day. Anna J. came in the morning, then Mary  Findley to spend the day and just at noon, Mr. and Mrs. Harris of Bellefonte. I, in the  meantime, had to be upstairs and down. Weather warm and lovely. Ma able to sit at the  balcony door.  September 3rd  : Ma really seems stronger in the past few days. Yesterday had a natural  movement.ofbowels caused probably by her relish of com alia tomatoes. Friday, Milton  came, who -gavener good pleasure. He thought she looked very well. Katy also. She- is--'  "readIng over again Pw(artd Catlina~-- Btisy-vvitlrcom' and-tomatoes-1oday;-very, Vety tiled! -
November 10th  : Mary Hunter, Han and Anna Sterrett have come and gone. Han here  five weeks. House all cleaned. Tanya had her week off before commencing and today  Tilly started for her weeks holiday. Ma continues quite well but the leg little better.  Takes the battery every other day and has resumed knitting little sacks. One day she sat  up six hours at a stretch, but not since. Five hours today with morning and afternoon.  We have been talking this evening about her early youth, very interesting. Her teeth are  mostly out and when I suggested a new set, she replied, "Not until this leg grows better."  Tried one bright p.m. to let us take her into the garden, but she refused. She is as patient  and lovely as it is possible for one to be.  Box #460  96.30.3523








Hannony Grove, Thursday morning,  Dear Enoch,  It seems strange that I should at last conclude upon writing to you after such a  respectable silence. You have often heard when things are at their worst they sometimes  mend. I can only say hopefully that the crisis may come someday and then neglected  friends may look for a gradual improvement. I wish you would tell me how to create  again my long-lost fondness for letter-writing. Severe scoldings, gentle reproaches,  flattery, etc. are of no avail. The idea of ladies and gentlemen placed under like  circumstances writing to each other three times a week or every day and even twice a  day, I cannot see through. They possess more love and devotion than I ever expect to  have capacity for. But there's no use in boasting else pride might have a fall. Don't you  think so? Enoch, I am going to make you mad by telling you the reason (if any) why I  did not write you for so long. Perhaps you'll not care to know it, but I somehow obtained  the impression that indifferent of the pleasure it afforded you to receive any epistle, you  did not care particularly for mine. My opinion is changed, though, till next time. I know  you think I am a queer girl and I want to establish your belief, but I'll stop before you  pronounce me in a silly mood which I really am. A letter from Annie Porter a few  moments ago accounts for it, for till now I have had the blues dreadfully all day, for what,  I know not. I am sorry you don't understand her. Why don't you? I am sure her true  character is manifested in her every actions. She is as clear as the transcendent stream.  You must understand her if it is only from obligations for the good opinion she has of  , you. I would not increase your vanity by telling you how she expressed those opinions~  With all our questioning of the other day, I did not ask you all. What was that long  talk to be about? It was not concerning the advice you wanted me to give, was it? I still  imagine you were only in jest when you asked me about such a thing as that. Anything  that I might propose would perhaps be in direct opposition to your best interests and then  it would be of no avail. I want to know, though, what that talk relates to, also, the queer  conversation you had with your brother. You think, as usual, I guess, that the demands  are great when compared with the little that is given. I regret that you should think so  and hope you'll tell me. There are hopes and regrets mingled, which, according to the  S w =+ + poetess, L. E. L. are th ? inks of our existence. I think she is mistaken more surely than  u: ~ S - the one who said love was the elixir of life. You did not believe me when I pronounced  all men deceitful. Indeed, I was partly in earnest. I think they generally are and I don't  believe you will deny the assertion. How many profess friendship and respect when they  cherish feelings in opposition to what they would have you believe? All are not so,  though. I do not think you are. I have too much confidence in you to think you would do  anything you would not care to have everyone know. A young lady asked me one day if  you were a true friend of hers. I told her I was sure you were. I said you professed to be,  at any rate, but she did not know whether there was any reality in it or not. Can you  guess who it was? One who has little confidence in human nature, you may be sure.  Of course, I don't regard what you said of women. I guess they are not all altogether  clear, either. We have a proof of it in the saying of that friend you were telling me of the  ' ... ," other day. His object was either to tease or make mischief. I thought it was Mary Smith  ,~. before you~ told me, but she is'entirely too? Did I ever tell you what I heard about you
and Mary not very long ago? That you were very much in love with her and she would  not smile upon you at all ? You, no doubt, feel very much chagrined. If I should ever  have people to gossip about me (of course, they do not), I'd give them something more  favorable to talk about. Poor, per ecuted young man! Tis as bad almost as rolling  Re ulus downhill in the b 7. You are attacked upon all sides. Were I you, I'd  leave Hollidaysburg. Now you cannot say you have not my advice upon that subject. It  has been given. I was going to say involuntarily but t'would not be against will. I think I  have flnished writing to you now, Enoch, although there is not much in the letter. It is  quite long enough for such a beautiful day as this when one should be out enjoying the  light that plays upon autumn's soft, shadowy days. I read a rare description of the  beauties of autumn in a note received the other day. I almost wish I had shown it to you.  You were very kind to write me a second time without receiving an answer to your flrst.  I looked at the letter in astonishment before I opened it. I had thought you too proud to  return a favor under such circumstances. I don't think you lost anything by it at all. It  was not consigned to the ? at any rate. If I should say it was nice, perhaps it would  satisfy you and be an answer to the question you asked concerning it. Of course, it was ?  and that was a queer question and are you not a queer person? So, I guess t'was all  characteristic. I have a queer question to ask you the next time I see you. Till then,  good-bye.  Yours, Annie  Saturday night  Dear Enoch,  I'll do as you told me, add a postscript to a letter which is already too old to send, but  you know my disinclination in that way. There are many things here which might have  been said and many questions which have been answered so you can look upon them as  though they were not. I feel sad this evening in comparison with the last and the solemn  ? droops? and rise mournfully of the contrast with the soft moonlight. When two  perverse maidens at last found it proper to stray forth with two impatient youths, I cannot  yet see the impoliteness in resisting, but I do know how much offended or ? somebody  was. I was afraid he was going to walk on in haughty silence all the evening till he  flnally offered me his arm. Did Mr. Sam make Miss Matt miserable today by leaving?  She was anticipating such a thing. I don't know what to think of those two people. Then  continually to me resembles very much a watering-place flirtation, only for the present.  Did your ears burn late last night? Mattie was telling me some of the pretty things he  said (of course, you'll say nothing to him.) He did not improve his opportunity though by  revealing to her the thoughts and intent of his heart, if there are any beneath an agitated  exterior. She gave me quite a lecture for teasing her so publicly, but we were only  repaying her in like coin. Has that important message been delivered yet and what was it,  may I ask? Some young ladies display great tact in managing their affairs and persons  --' - ---,-- . .. --'_._- - might learn 'wisdom by observation, if not 'experience: But-I-cannot'Say all I would here
for look wonderful, I'm at the end of this sheet and not done yet. Something wonderful is  going to happen. The spirit has thus moved me.  __ ~_~. -t- ~ ............ ..-... - - . ----~".. •  ,..., .,i"\ ~ ... I ~_




-  Lawrenceville, July 2, 1850  MydearMa,  I know you have been looking for a letter long ago and perhaps are anxious to know the cause of this  delay. You have no reason to fear, I am very well and all is very peaceable here at present, but I have so  little time to write to anyone - all the writing I do is out of school, which is not very pleasant in this warm  weather after being confined in school all day.  I received your letter on Saturday, just the day I was expecting one from you. I received a long one from  Sarah the day before. They are still in Washington, but intend to be in Princeton on the fourth of July. They  have been at Mt. Vernon and also other places about Washington of which she gave me a description. She  was at a green house in which were plants brought by the Exploring Expedition. She spoke of seeing a  fuschia, with the upper part of the flower white artd only the drooping part red. Have you ever seen the  variety?  She said they had received a long letter from you and that they were going to pay you a visit as soon as  possible, but it might not be for a long time. Woods desires me to be in Princeton on the 4th, but I think I  will not go, for we expect to have such a grand day here.  Dr. Nassau took us all in to hear the students speak on Wednesday last. We had a very pleasant time,  with the exception of its being very warm, which it still continues to be. I think this summer is much  warmer than last.  I suppose it is very cool and comfortable at home just now. Sometimes I think if I ever had the milk  house here I should spend half of my time in it and a glass of cool ice water now and then would be quite a  luxury.  The strawberries are allover sometime ago. I thought they were not very abundant this year for we only  had them twice, but we have had any quantity of cherries. I am looking forward with impatience until the  time when peaches will be ripe. They, I think, are better than all the fruits put together.  You must be very lonely now at home, all alone with neither Pa nor Sylvester to keep you company. I  should not wonder if you would get low-spirited. I think it would be very admirable for you to go to  Bedford. It would strengthen you very much, such debilitating weather. Can you not get someone to  accompany you? Miss Hetty Finley or Mrs. Lowrie, I should think, you might persuade to go.  Are Mary and Maggie still with you? Has cousin Mary taken her intended trip to Lancaster yet? I would  not be at all surprised if she had not for I should think she would dread leaving her house so long in anyone's  hands who is unlike herself What kind of dresses did they get? And how were they pleased with them? I  forgot to tell you that Mr. Geiger surpassed my greatest expectations, that is in being so homely. I think if I  had him in Hannah's place, I shoutd have almost rather done without a husband than one so homely. I heard  of Dr. Master's marriage sometime before I received your letter, through Fullerton Miles. His daughter is  almost frantic.  Lucretia Moore is going to spend part of my vacation with me if nothing happens to prevent. Have you  and Aunt any thoughts of coming on for me the last of the session? It was reported some time ago that I  was going to another school. I heard it through Thorn Gwin, who wished to know if it was true, but I  suppose there is nothing of it or I should have heard you or Pa speak of it. Give my love to all, and wish  some to your affectionate daughter, Anna.  Box #419


Lawrenceville, July 21, 1851  My dearMa,  I have been looking for a letter from you for some time and have felt rather anxious  that you did not write, but perhaps you think I don't deserve one for being so long about  writing myself. I thought of writing to you every day last week, but put off every day  until it has at last arrived at Monday morning, just three weeks since I have written you a  word but I have been thinking you are preparing for Bedford.  All the Centre County girls have had their friends to see them. Blair Moore was here  last week with several of his friends from New York, but I did not have the extreme  pleasure of seeing him. General Irwin and his lady are coming next week. I have wished  some of you would stop in some day and take me by surprise but that is scarcely to be  expected. I still look forward to seeing you the last of the session. If you do not come, I  will be very much disappointed. Lucretia Moore says she expects her sister Charlotte on  but I think it very doubtful for they make so many promises of the kind and poor Crish is  always disappointed.  Have you heard that May Lyon and Robert Hamill are engaged to be married? I  suppose Mr. Hamill is quite delighted for I should think he would begin to feel rather old.  I think Mr. Hugh had better be looking out or he will soon be a hopeless case, if not so .  already.  Lawrenceville is full of old maids and bachelors. I think that is what makes it so very  dull. All our fun, too, is allover. We have nothing now to look forward to but going  home. Some have not even that pleasure.  They are getting dreadfully strict and all on account of the boys. Dr. Nassau is so very  suspicious since he found out one of the girls who corresponded with one of the village  boys. It was Ellen D., Fan's daughter, Orianna Launice and the post-office boy. They  are denied many privileges which Mr. Hamill would grant them were it not for Dr.  Nassau.  We had a serenade last week from some of our Princeton friends. They were very  welcome, although they robbed us of several hours sleep. I am somewhat better about  getting up than I was last vacation. I suppose you are not very sorry to hear it. I have not  been absent from prayers for a longtime, yet I cannot say I am altogether broken of the  bad habit. The girls get out of patience with me sometimes but I have Creesh Moore to  keep me company . .  How is Mrs. Walker?  I received a letter from Mary and Martha sometime ago and to my great pleasure  Marth had at long and last started for Lititz, which I hope will prove a great benefit to her  and Mary was in the city. Does she still cling as closely to King as ever?  - I ·am -ashamed to say I have not touched your cap yet, but I find that the pattern is not a  . _ .. . ~". H.r. 'oJ .ggo"tOtl~. {J have thought of working you a chain instead which I think is a good bargain.
. ~  I have not made up my mind yet and if I do commence it, I will not promise to  accomplish it for we have so little time to sew this session.  Will you send me the "Examiner & Herald?" It will still be something from home.  Give my love to all and believe me, as ever, your affectionate daughter, Anna.  P .S. Write soon.  96.25.169




Lawrenceville, August 4, 1851  My dearPa,  I have thought of answering your letter for sometime, but did not know  whether to write to you or Ma, as I received one from her the same time, not  knowing whether she was at Bedford or home. I heard the distressing news  of Woods Sterretts death through one of the girls here from McVeytown and  that you and Ma were going to Uncle's. _ I thought I would delay writing to  either of you until you were at home.  I suppose Ma will not return to Bedford again as she will have to be  entirely alone if she goes now. How long did she intend to stay?  I am waiting very impatiently for the time to draw when I shall start for  home, but am thinking how I shall get home. I have heard you say nothing of  coming on. I suppose as it is too early in the season. Ma said she and Aunt  were coming together, but I suppose she will not come now on account of  Woods' death. I suppose Mr. North and Clem have left some time ago. I  should like very much to be at home when Aunt Kitty and Cousin Lizzie pay  their visit, as I suppose they will. It would be still more pleasant if they were  to stay until I would be at home, especially for Ma. It is so very lonesome for  her to be all alone. I suppose I am to stay home next winter. I feel as though  I should go to school for I lose so much, but would rather stay home. It will,  I think, be hard to tell which place will be the duller, for this place is very  dull in winter and I think it will be more so next term, for they become more  strict every session, for what reason, I don't know. I don't think the pupils  become any worse, but as far as studies are concerned, I am getting along  very well and also my music, ~ but will forget all if I have not a piano to  practice upon.  I have not heard from Woods since he has been in Maine, whether he has  not received my letter or has not time to write, I don't know, but I would not  obj ect to receiving a letter from him. I have not received one this session.  '-.. - - -- .-1 suppose you are enjoying com and tomatoes in abundance. We had com  for dinner yesterday for the ftrst time and tomatoes we have not tasted. There
_is going to be very few peaches this year, I believe, for which I am very sorry,  for they are the only kind of fruit I care anything about.  We have very fme blackberries, the kind that Ma is so fond of I often  wish she was here to enjoy some of them. Give my love to all the folks about  home and believe me as ever your affectionate daughter, Anna.  P. S. Please write soon. I am compelled to stop short in my letter for want of  something to say. Every day is the same over again, scarcely anything  amusing but our studies and they often pose to be very dry.  CJ, ~._ .,t:)




La\vrenceville, September 16,-1851  My dear Pa,  I received your letter last night I suppose, instead of yourself. I did not set  my mind on your coming when Ma told me you would if you possibly could,  but that you had a great dea1 to attend to. I am very glad now that you did  not come, for I can get ready now at my leisure and had you cotne for tne  sooner that she and I think I should have left with some reluctance for I have  so many things to prepare.  It is now but little more than a week until I start for home. I will be at no  loss for company. Ma has given me pennission to stay at Mc VeytO\Vll a few  days, but I think I will be too anxious to get home and see you a11.  Since it is yours and Ma's wish that I should return next session, I will  with pleasure. They treat us much better now than they did the fITst of the  term. I think the reason is that they understand us better. I am quite happy  now. I hope you will have no more fears as to that.  I received a letter fronl Sarah last week. They are both strongly in favor  of my returning. They think I have improved, notwithstanding all my  complaints. I think I should act very much against everyone's good will if I  should remain at home next winter for everyone appears to be in favor of my  going to school.  I have some very pretty oil paintings to bring home with me instead of  drawings.  You can do just as you feel inclined about sending me the money for my  traveling expense, for I don't suppose it makes much difference.  I now close with my love, hoping to see you all very soon. This is a short  letter but I wrote to Ma la~t Monday. I write you this one to let you know I  have received your letter and also Ma's last week.  Your ever affectionate daughter,  Anna  q~-clS-\13




Lawrenceville, January 12, 1852  My dearMa,  I am not answering your letter quite as soon as I intended. Now we have  so little time to write here that I cannot be as punctual as I would like.  We enjoyed ourselves very much during the holidays. We had good  sleighing and of course enjoyed it. We went to a party to Mr. Hamill's on  Christmas night and New Year's night -were invited to one at the  Hendrickson's. So between parties and sleigh-riding, you may have an idea  of how we have been enjoying ourselves.  The village people have been very kind indeed, the walking being very  disagreeable. They called for me in their sleigh Saturday afternoon, evening  and Sunday morning to go to church. It saved me the trouble of walking and  also gave us a little ride.  I received a letter from Woods not long ago in which he told me a  daydream that he and Sarah had, which perfectly delighted me. I won't see  what you and Pa will say to it, so I will give it you in his own words.  "Suppose next winter we take a small house in a pleasant part of the city near  our friends and commence housekeeping; this boarding is not nice for young  married people, nor indeed for old people either. But then is it worthwhile to  keep up an establishment for only two people? Make a great fuss about  baking, washing and scrubbing and all that for only two! Why not have  sister Nan with us? Next summer she will leave Lawrenceville to remain at  home, but to return to school again when winter commences. Why not go to  school to us? Weare well enough qualified to teach the young Miss in all  desirable branches, and do not we take more interest in her than any teachers  elsewhere could, no matter how enthusiastic they may be? We could instruct  her in French, Philosophy, Natural History, Chemistry and Drawing, then too  she could have a master for her music. The idea greatly pleased us and we  have dwelt on it." And how does it please you? I think ifnothing should  happen to prevent, it would be delightful. I think myself I should improve  .more·thari at school, but if you do not fancy the idea, I will willingly do what  you think best~ __ ~. ~ _
I received a letter from May Hardy last week. She said that Miller Woods  expected to pay me a visit. I think if all the friends that I expect come I will  have fme times. She said they had a dancing school at McVeytown and she  wished to go very much. She asked my advice. What shall I tell her? Tell  Pa ifhe thinks none merit a frrst-~lass piano save those who play perfectly,  his daughter don't deserve one for she is by no means proficient. I think I  should be quite a wonder if I were, for I have only taken two years.  The needlework you did for me last vacation has been very much admired  indeed, so you have not taken pains for nothing, but you shall not do  anymore. They all say I am too bad to-let you do it. My music teacher was  in my room the other day to take a pattern of it. She quite discouraged me by  saying I never need expect to be as neat a sewer as you are. I forthwith  pulled out that scalloped collar to show them how neatly I could sew, for you  said that was very well done. I think if Margaret Baker does not soon come,  you need not expect her. I hope you will excuse that frightfullooking blot on  the other side, and with love to all, I am your affectionate daughter, Anna.  Margin writing: P.S. Tell Mary in twelve or thirteen more weeks, she has  full permission to be married, for then if nothing happens, I will be home. If  you wish to, you can remember me to "Mr. Billy Harper," daughter, Anna.




Lawrenceville, March , ~s d-  )  My dearMa,  I suppose you are anxiously waiting for answer to your last letter, which I  received some time ago. I would have written long before this, but was  prevented on account of having to attend some lectures, which were delivered  here on Europe by Dr. Baird. They were very interesting indeed. He lectured  the greater part of last week and is going to give lectures three days this week  on France, Greece and Turkey.  I was expecting Pa all last week but he did not make his appearance. I felt  very anxious as I have not received a letter. I expect him certainly today. If  he does not come this week, I shall feel very much disappointed and alarmed.  In his last letter, he spoke of you having a headache unlike you usually  have. I think it must be common for a great many here are complaining of  queer kinds of headaches.  It has been some time, dear Ma, since I have written the above. I have  since had a very pleasant visit from Pa and a little cousin, Floride. I had  almost begun to despair thinking he was not coming at all or that some of you  must be very ill, but his visit put an end to all my suppositions, which were  by no means pleasant.  Those shoes fit me very neatly and just suit this season of the year, but I  was not at all in need of them, for a great wonder. I have a beautiful collar,  but I think you have the handsomest - I scarcely knew which to take, but  judging from the price and size, we concluded yours was the best, therefore  you should have it; however, if you see mine and like it better you can have  it. I kept one of those books which I fmd to be very beautiful and interesting.  Sallie Lyon and Mrs. Robert Hamill are in Lawrenceville. I have no~ seen  them except yes,terday in church. It seems quite natutal to see Sallie, but I  think she has not improved in the least, rather gone back, but I am only  -- jQdging from appearances. The girls think Tom is the best-looking of them  ------·-all, but I cannot agree with them.  /)1 .,... •• '7
We expect to see Sallie up at the seminary this morning. If I am not called  in the parlor to see her I shall feel myself quite slighted. Several of the girls  from Centre County feel quite slighted because Mr. Robert Hamill did not  speak to them yesterday in church. Poor Maggie had to bear all the blame for  occupying so much of his attention.  Pa told me that the Miss McCormicks paid cousin Mary a visit this  winter. I think I know one of them, at least I know a Mary Jane McCormick  from Mill Hall, Centre County. I suppose that is the one. How were you  pleased with them? One of them, I believe, is very wild.  It is now but little more than three weeks until we start for home. Oh!  How glad I feel! I want to see you all so much, even down to the "gray  kitten." Seeing Pa only increased my desire to see you all. I can scarcely  realize that I am not coming back next term, but I am now beginning to feel  that I am not really going to return, for the Nassau family say something to  me almost every day about leaving them. I shall feel very sorry to leave this  little place. But I leave it with the expectation of visiting it some day again, if  I live. I have heard nothing from Woods for some time except that Pa told  me he was in Philadelphia, but lowe Sarah a letter and I suppose that is the  reason I don't hear from them. I forgot to tell that Lane Lyon was engaged to  be married, but perhaps you have heard it. Mr. Hugh Hamill told me on  Friday evening. I was very much surprised to hear it. They are all going off  and leaving Sallie alone in the world. Give my love to all the folks of  Alleghany and write soon to your very affectionaate daughter.  Box #419  /J I ",-- " • ...,








Lancaster, February 20, 1886  My dearMa,  This cold and windy morning fmds us all shining after the spring- like  warmth of yesterday. The wind comes around the house in sudden gusts and  the snowflakes are flying through the air. We had a very pleasant time last  evening at the tea-drinking. Mrs. Robinson is better and able to be  downstairs, "Aunt Eliza" and "Auntie Bell" are as bright and jolly as usual. I  ate moderately of scalloped oysters and fried chicken and was no worse for it.  They all have such hearty appetites here that Marge is distressed that I don't  eat more, but the Dr. tells me to be careful and not to take more than satisfies  me.  I am again as well as usual and happy and cheerful. I suppose it will take  sometime to overcome this inward weakness as it was so long coming on.  The Dr. told Marge that I lacked physical stamina. He is very kind and  seems to take an interest in me. He laughs at my saying that sick headaches  are essential to my well-being. When I told him that I inherited them from  my grandmother and mother, he said in a quizzical way, "Then I would not  have such a grandmother!" He told cousin Mary that he would like to tease  me but I was so nervous and sensitive he did not dare. I had not enough ?  blood in me. He is quite a character and his patients seem very fond of him.  Mr. and Mrs. Johnson - Wheatland - were devoted to him. He is a bachelor  and sleeps in his office on a lounge without taking off his clothes in order to  be ready for night calls. Yet, in spite of that, he presents a neat appearance.  He is a sort of humanitarian and treats the poor for nothing and is otherwise  generous and thoughtful. But I am wandering from the tea party, which was  a quiet one, there being nobody there beside ourselves, but Mary (Gosline)  Russel and their next-door neighbors, the Misses Andrews. We stopped in  old Mrs. Garson's a moment on our way home and found a cosy family  around the evening lamp, Mrs. G. looking so sweet and bright in her pretty  widow's caps. She is the style and size of Auntie. Although she is 80 years,  she looks even younger. I let Marge go to ? without me this morning as it  was so cold. Mary and Marge are two of the best women I know, so kind  .':. ' and tlnselfish and always busy in good works. Mary is devoted to her  " ~. mission school and is studying her teacher's lessons every spare moment.  She has had a bad cold but has, with the aid of medicine, been able quickly
to throw if off. Mr. Hostetter, formerly of Altoona, has been very polite to  me,  calling several times and sending books for us to read. He tried to get the  memorial that was written of Mrs. Ely, but did not succeed. He is a  wonderfully wise man and seems to read and have a most intelligent  knowledge of everything. I could tell him nothing new about Altoona. He  had a great admiration for Professor Miller and told me many interesting  things of him. I have been interrupted here by a call from Miss Ellmaker  next door, who is better and rather injudiciously came in this cold morning to  see me. The poor girl is so weak that she can scarcely stand, but she has a  wonderful will. She sends every few days a little bouquet of lovely flowers  to me from those she received from her fiends. Her grandmother still lives  and suffers. The Dr. says she has been dying for two weeks. Milton and  Lizzy and Miss Slagmaker went to Washington this week and had charming  weather for their visit. Marge is going to send for them to spend the day on  Monday next. I expect to go to Philadelphia on Wednesday. I cannot go  before on account of not being able to get some clothes washed. I will take  Ves's advice and not remain in Philadelphia if I fmd it does not suit me, but  go up to Carlisle. I shall leave here with much regret, they are all so kind and  do everything they can for my comfort and pleasure. Cousin Mary has been  much better for two days and seems very cheerful. I have half decided to go  first to Mrs. McHugh's as she is so very urgent. The? are downstairs!  Again I go! I fmish this letter by bits. The? are still here, but as the Dr. is in  Cousin Mary's room, I am here waiting. The Dr. has come and gone and left  me another glass of bitter medicine after sundry inquiries. The? are now in  Cousin Margaret's room and the girls are wishing that they would go so that  we can have dinner. I have had so many interruptions that I hardly know  what I have written you.  The dinner bell rings in spite of the? Marge sends you lots of love and  hopes to receive a visit from you sometime soon. Marge is sitting beside me  altering a dress for her Mother. She has done marketing this morning, baked  bread, made seven pies, received visitors, etc. and seems as fresh as when she  got up for breakfast. Cousin Mary is fortunate in having daughters so  watchful of her comfort. I am thinking a great deal about you and wondering  if you are feeling lonely. If you have any desire for me to be at home, don't  ,: ~.~ '.-=.- hesitate-to write for me. --I hope--:K:aty and you also keep well and that you  -_---' .... -may hear of a second -girl. My-~strength seems so long in-coming that I am  afraid I will not be worth much for sometime. Although I seem capricious  ~.  ... - ... -._- ~--. -,-
and occasionally feel quite strong for a little while. I send you a little needle  book with the kind of needles you have been wishing for.  Your loving daughter.  Margin writing: I can tell you nothing that the ? said as they do not talk.  They look well and seem to have gained flesh.  Box #419  /l. "\ . _ _ _ _ A








MydearMa,  1703 Locust Street  March 8, 1886  This morning finds me returned from my little trip and fairly rested. We  all went over to New York on Wednesday afternoon arriving there at six op &lt;e../t.{~  o'clock. After dinner, Mr. MacLeagh kindly took us to see the beautiful-?--of  Tanhauser and next morning, alas! I woke with a bad headache. I made  several ineffectual attempts to get up but was obliged to go back to bed,  where I remained until 12 0' clock, when, owing to good nursing, my  headache abated and I was able to take some lunch, and by the time we were  ready to leave N. Y., I was so much better that I stopped off at Princeton and  met with a cordial welcome from Miss Mary who seemed very glad to have  me with her and urged my staying longer. She is very comfortably fixed at  Mrs. Patterson's, but Mrs. P. is going to give up the house in April for a  smaller one near the college and poor Miss Mary will be adrift again. She  may be able to rent her house but cannot know certainly before June. I feel  so sorry for her and asked her to come see us next summer. I spent a night  and day at Princeton. Immediately after tea, the Clarks', who somehow  learned of my arrival, came in to see me and were as cordial as usual. Mrs.  Grandpere and Miss Noyes also came in and we had a pleasant morning  chat. In the afternoon, I returned the Clark's call and received a cordial  invitation from them to remain and make a visit. Old lady Clark is as bright  and active as ever and very sweet. We called also on Mrs. Aiken and Mrs.  Guyot - who was very cordial and looking very sweet in her widow's cap.  In the evening, I went to Trenton and spent the night and part of next day  with Mrs. Reese, whom I found well and bright and cheery as usual. Mrs.  Reese has grown much larger and seemed well and happy. Harry Parker is  now a large boy of fifteen, very much like his mother but not so pretty. He  has exactly his mother's disposition, .knows and likes everybody and is ? to  fun without much ambition for work of any kind. He is very sweet-tempered  and docile, but his Uncle and Aunt are worried that he does not  make better use of his advantages. Fannie is still with Mrs. Reese and  invaluable. Mrs. R. says she will not be married before six months or a year.  Mrs. Reese's two nieces, daughters of her oldest brother, came to visit them  the day I left. I called on Virginia? Lang?, who lives nearly opposite Mrs .  . Reest? I found little change in her after !he-space of more than twenty years.  She has grown. fat but her expression is u!!changed. She seemed to think that  I looked ''just as I used to do". She has a dear little daughter, 12 years old,  q~ -as - (j 0  ~ , .. ,/ ... 0
to whom she is entirely devoted. Mr. Lang? is much respected but not a  successful man. When I reached here on Sat. evening, I found a kind  invitation from Cos. Annie Baker to take tea with them on Sat. evening and  one from Cos. Mary B. to take tea with them on Sunday evening. I was too  late for the former and I declined the latter as I was very tired after my spree  and obliged to rest most of yesterday. We go to call on them this afternoon.  Tomorrow Jennie has arranged to take Mary H., Margaretta and myself to  Robesonia to see Mary Chameral - and we will not return until Thursday so  I will not get to Mrs. Wilson's before Friday next, but I certainly will not  stay long there. I am beginning to feel as though I should turn my face  homeward. Marge writes and begs for another visit in Lan. but I will only  stop over night and will not go to Carlisle and I feel also like passing Sallie  Baker by. I was disappointed not to fmd a letter here from you with your  memorandum. I hope it may come soon. Marge spoke of their receiving a  letter from Yes urging Cos. Mary going to Rome. Cos. Mary says she  would rather die than go, beside she has not cancer, she says. Marge writes  that she is feeling better. Margaretta has been confined to bed with cold.  Yesterday was a lovely day, but today it is cloudy and snowing. Mary  Chameral has been visiting at the Lewis's with her children and tomorrow  morning we all go to Robesonia together. Mary says it will make no  difference. She has written to her cook to make arrangements for us. I  dreamed last night that we had a second girl and I was much relieved in my  mind. I hope the dream may come true. ? seems to have so little trouble in  that way. My health is much better as you may know from my being able to  go about as much as I have. I still have? Dorsey to go see and them I am  through. I hope you are all well and getting on nicely. I am anxious to hear  from home. The family moved to the farm in April. Mr. MacLeagh has  changed his tenant and it is necessary to be there. They have nothing but?  chickens. They think they are more delicate and they like their eggs on  account of their number and delicacy, which seems to me a delusion. With  much love to you and Yes and hoping soon to hear from you, I am your  loving daughter. -

Allegheny Furnace, March 27th  , 1905  Dear Rebecca,  I have often wanted to hear something of you but it has taken a business motive to try  and find you. So selfish is human naturel Have you still a young sister who could come  to live with us? A nice little girl just such as you used to be? I suppose Laura would be  keeping house for your father, but what about the younger one? Our little upstairs  Bessie, who has been with us over four years, leaves the 1 st April to help her mother with  her larger family and boarders. Bessie, the cook, has been with us over five years and is  a very nice girl in every way. Both Bessies are very much the kind, obliging, happy sort  you were. You see, I have very pleasant memories of you. Of course, I know it is just a  mere possibility that you can find the little ward I am looking for as they seem very  scarce, but I shall be exceedingly obliged to you for any effort you may make. I heard  several years ago that you were a busy mother with a growing family of little children.  May God bless you and yours is the wish of yours sincerely,  Anna W. Baker  0_ . .... .., 1 \,1




Harmony Grove," April 8th  ) ~ . ..r- 3  I am afraid you did not think I would prove such an indifferent correspondent when  you asked me to write.  This, methinks, is a fit return for your kindness in answering my letter so soon. It  seems as though I was one of those helpless creatures who are destined never to learn  wisdom except by sad experiences.  J  Things most important I leave untouched until it is perhaps too late, when I am left to  suffer the pangs of a guilty conscience, which you know is by no means agreeable. But it  is said "when things are at their worst, they sometimes mend." Perhaps such may be the  case someday.  I suppose you spent the afternoon with friends Eve and Fannie, I hope pleasantly.  Were you disappointed or not in the beauty of the former? She is considered decidedly  the prettiest girl in school.  I dare say one of them has stolen your affections and borne them away to the "sunny  south", never to return. I've regretted so much that you and Will Lawrence did not go up  with us part of the way last Thursday. Our party would then have been complete.  Col. Patterson is the life of the company and when he left, there seemed to be quite a  number gone, for with his mirth and fun, he supplies the place of two or three ordinary  persons.  I should judge from the manner in which he spoke of you that you were a particular  friend of his.  I took a ride into Hollidaysburg day before yesterday. I saw Mrs. Banks, but not to  speak to her. I believe, however, they are all well.  I asked Ellen Gregg several times what her object was in telling Mrs. Banks to ask you  of me. She smiled very mysteriously, but gave me very little satisfaction on the subject.  I dare say she had some obj ect in it unknown to all, save herself. I never flattered myself  in thinking that she was a particurar friend of mine or I of hers, either, although she at  times professed greatly to the contrary, but we must make allowances, for, you know,  "like the ocean's changing tides, human passions ebb and flow."  It is hard to understand human nature sometimes. The deepest, truest feelings of the  heart are ofttimes hidden behind a mask of indifference. Under a bright and smiling  countenance, there frequently lies a sad heart, so in sworn friends, we often find bitter  enemies.
If you are an admirer of Dame Nature's charms, to change the subject, you should be  in the country this morning. Every object is radiant with beauty, from the distant blue  hills to the little spring flowers which bloom at our feet. The spirit of beauty is  everywhere.  It covers the landscape and fills the stream with shadows that flit like a fairy dream.  Excuse my partiality for poetry.  When may we expect a letter from Tuscarora? He says he never knew he was "fairy  pitted. " Well, I think it is best to be humble in one's own opinion and perhaps I should  not have told him, lest he might grow vain thereby, but it is said now and the past is vain.  I cannot again say return good for evil, for I have not the conscience, but I will secretly  wish it and perhaps my wishes will be gratified .. Please destroy this as soon as you read it  and oblige your friend,  P.S. Please direct to Altoona.  Remember me to friends and acquaintances. A.W.B.  Mr. E.A.Banks  Answered Aprill3, 1853  Annie W. Baker  C\lo. 30.'Sd (P. \ ~  Q.4. ~ ~~ ) ~




Princeton, February 15th  , 1854  I shall take pleasure in sending all your things as soon as I am at home. I am sorry I cannot  now, as it may cause you to doubt the truthfulness of what I say. Did I express a wish that our  friendship might continue? Strange, I may have said it, but it is a matter of perfect indifference  to me as to whether we are friends or the blackest of enemies.  As to Miss Davis' information, I gave it, and she, of course, told her lover. If memory were  less treacherous, I might be more explicit and give you the day of the month, the hour in which it  was told.  And for the promise to keep what has passed sacred, itwas made for your sake, not my own.  But since 'twas not appreciated, I should take pleasure, nay, pride, in having you pour forth your  wrongs in the ears of the world from the highest dignitary to the ? gossip of the town. Do you  think I care for what the world says? Never. I am not such a cringing slave to popularity. I  cannot but thank you for the style of your last letter, as it has sorted all sickly kindness and  sorrow from my heart and given place to feelings more agreeable.  A.W. Baker  Box #437




Harmony Grove  May 18th  , 1854  Here is the much talked-of letter! or at least a beginning. I have sealed  myself expressly for the purpose of writing those five lines. If I go beyond  the allotted number, I suppose you will pardon me. When I commence  writing letters, I never know when to stop. I dare say it follows that because  woman has or is said to have such limited control over her tongue she must  consequently have the same over her pen, which sometimes answers as a  substitute, and a very good one, too, for as we said the other evening, it is  much easier to write our thoughts than express them. But what am I going  to write about in the meantime? I am sure I do not know. It would be  useless to describe the charms of nature to you, particularly here, as you  have seen them so lately, besides you know "the spirit's beauty is  everywhere" and I have determined not to be sentimental or quote poetry,  but the young gentleman to whom I am writing may sometimes have  occasion to repeat some of it, as he has frequently done before, greatly to my  discomfort. It is not much wonder if, when so much exasperated, I should  say "stop" by way of relief. How wretchedly you must feel that you have no  one to tease just now. I am sorry Mary Smith is so far away, she is such a  good subject. Perhaps you might write to her and give vent to those pent-up  teasing propensities in that way. I hope you will not think the tables are  turning upon yourself. I am really afraid to indulge in a little jest nowadays  lest I may be accused of sarcasm severity, etc. It has been unwisely said by  some person that "woman's will is hard to know, harder yet to hit." Man's, I  think, would have been more apropos, but I'll enter into no discussions, for I  am rather inclined to be dogmatical sometimes, when I choose. I guess you  are just now thinking rather egotistical.  How did you get home Tuesday evening? I hope safely, but how could  you else with the stars and pleasant thoughts, I trust, for companions. I  always imagine you to be one who never allowed a shadow to dim the  sunlight of your hopes, dreams, etc. and I have reason to believe I am not far  wrong. Happy creature! To a disposition which looks ever on the brightest  side, "the gloomiest day hath gleams of light. The darkest wave, bright  foam near it." But oh! I am breaking the resolution made in the former part  of the letter. I am also going far beyond the promise, for here are many  ~ _. more tha~ five lines. I shall cease, whether I feel so inclined or not, fearing I  may weary you by foolishness.
I never saw what interest gentlemen could like in ladies' letters, except  those who are very literary and not at all given to small talk. Their own are  so different, but enough. Goodbye - sincerely your friend,  Annie  Enoch A. Banks, Esq.  P.s. I am not putting this postscript because 'tis said everybody must  have one, but merely because I have just thought of something of which I  did not think sooner. Rest easily in regards to Annie Porter, she will not  divulge a secret.






Princeton, December 15th  , 1854  Oh! Enoch, won't you excuse me for the neglect to which I have subjected you? If  you consider it more than a breach of etiquette, forgive me; if still more, pardon me and  that is humility enough to atone for my grievance of the kind. I was thinking about you  today wondering if you would not soon write me a note, giving me a firm rebuke; so I  was, in a measure, prepared, when your note was handed me this evening. You ask me  why I did not write you. I don't know and if that is not a satisfactory answer, because  may prove more so. But, speaking earnestly, I have no reason that I can think of. I  seated myself one day at Oliva Dan's to write you a long letter when I was interrupted by  a call from one of my friends and as he happened to be a very agreeable person, the hours  flew by unheeded and I did not see fit to excuse myself. Thus, the only opportunity I had  whilst there, was lost and when I came here new scenes and people so occupied me that I  did not think - no, not that quite- I had not time - perhaps I might to say more, truly, I  had not inclination to write to anybody. I am sorry to say that I still feel in that don't­carish  sort of mood. Even Annie Porter has to suffer by it but I don't care, she has been  treating me shamefully in the same way. So it goes. This a'changing world and the  person who would expect his days to be halcyon must have no illusions offancy, no  bright hopes to dim or anything that tends to lead the mind from common-place realities.  I suppose you are flourishing in grand style this winter in your lovely town. I hope  you derive an infinite amount of enjoyment from all those parties. I am glad I don't  enjoy you for I never should be happy in the world, but thanks to a kind fate, I never did  like such assemblies. It is anything but pleasant to me to live in a kind of mad excitement  for about four hours and sit the next twelve repenting in sighs and tears of all you have  said and done.  I received a letter from Mary Smith the other day. She seems to be enjoying herself to  the full extent. She told she told you something one day that made you quite miserable  for awhile, but I doubted her power to do so as you are not apt to grow miserable so  easily. She was going to give me some advice in regard to flirting, but concluded it  would be lost as my heart was already occupied. Do you remember? You gave me  permission to fall in love with half a dozen and I have not thought of beginning yet,  although I don't know but my powers were easily tried during a pleasant little flirtation in  Philadelphia. I have too much compassion and respect for the young sprigs of divinity  even to mar their righteous delights by evil designs or intentions. It would be preferable  to work upon metal which contains more dross. Don't you view the subject in the same  light? I could make much comment upon that but I am of opinion that such  commentations generally prove tiresome to you, particularly so wherein lies all my  leniency. I am happy to find that you do like Annie Porter. I ought surely to be  convinced after all you have said, but as for you thinking as I do, laughing when I smile,  etc. expect it, no! Not of any man. I have learned too well in every form, the simple  stanzas, "Ask not, hope not: I have too much of sympathy below." We do not expect  tendrils to entwine round more fragile objects than themselves so love is not the soul  absorbing theme of all creation's lords. My perceptive powers are not sufficiently great  to judge of yourself. You want to know how many I told of your intentions. Only three,  - -Enoch, two of whom you already know. The third does not know all and what she does  know-was drawn from me involuntarily. I never told you who it was for the reason that I
always forgot to mention it when 1 was with you. 1 will tell you now who it was lest you  might feel anxious to know. You can easily guess. Mary - not Martin, but Smith. If you  are displeased with me, 1 am sorry for it and that is all 1 can do. How did it come, Enoch,  that you changed your mind so suddenly about going to Lewistown? 1 thought you were  going to spend two or three months there. You must feel lonely enough in H. without  Matt and Mary. 1 heard of the marriage of one of your young "limbs of the law." How  strange, too! When he led me to believe in Philadelphia that he was not even engaged but  perhaps it was only an understanding. 1 did not make allowances that time, did I?  Anyhow, human nature is deceitful and the most sacred feelings of the heart should be  kept most secretly, so it is best not to be too candid in some things although you do  admire candor so much and were so cruel as to make that remark upon it quite, if not  altogether, personal. But 1 don't care. 1 have grown so indifferent to almost everything  nowadays that 1 seem to care little how 1 sail through life. All my senses seem lying  dormant, awaiting some strange reviving power. What will it be, 1 wonder? 1 wish 1 was  at home just now and 1 should feel like a different person. 1 am going to see Annie Porter  during the holidays, that is, if she is in Philadelphia. You are anxious to know what that  is that 1 had to tell you after 1 got here. Perhaps you'll regret that you know it after 1 have  told you but that 1 cannot help. 1 would have told you long before only 1 thought it would  make you feel badly, but now 1 cannot wait longer as 1 would not be fulfilling my duty  toward others as well as myself, so now prepare. Whilst receiving some parting advice  from my good mother before leaving, 1 was made promise 1 would not have any  gentlemen correspondents this winter. 1 promised and you, Enoch, were included. Now  you know all that 1 have to tell you so you must not expect me to write you at all often as  1 think it would be wrong and whatever is wrong is a sin, you know. 1 was very sorry  when 1 found out such was to be the case but things cannot be as we would have them. 1  would like to know what that was that you heard. Have you found out who that enemy of  yours is or rather who you suspected of being one? 1 fear you will not, but it matters little  so long as there is no truth in the assertions. Tell me 1 have no confidence in you when 1  don't believe that, yet have no facts to prove to the contrary. But 1 have not time to write  you more upon any subject. 1 must array myself for meeting an assembly of the fair and  noble of Princeton or, in other words, attend a party from which 1 wish 1 had the power of  absenting myself.  Au revoir, mon ami, yours as ever,  Annie




Thursday afternoon J ~ S~ tt  J  "If your own promise won't bring it, nothing that I can say, will." So you thought I was not  going to fulfill that promise. Very well, Mr. Banks! I'll be very lenient this time and reserve my  eloquence upon broken vows, promises, etc., for a more fitting occasion. Suffice it at present to  say, I try never to break engagements, but always to fulfill.  What more have you to say of the picnic? Is it going on or falling through? I suppose you and  Dr. McKee settled it satisfactorily. I would not be at all surprised if I did not go, rather, if I could  not, but you shall be apprised of the fact, that you may engage another lady and thereby not be  deprived the pleasure of attending yourself. Should it be at Spruce Creek, I would "die by inches,"  of course, that I did not get to see Annie Porter, when behold of the expected pleasure, so near. I  would like to get you and Annie together again, perhaps I might have designs upon you. I always  imagined matchmaking to be a delightful occupation, although would not fancy being a subject  myself.  How are the dear delectable gossips of H. flourishing? It would be sad as well as strange if they  were at loss for a topic. What a strange thing gossip is. Opinions from one are nothing, but when  t"ey fall varied from the lips of many, accompanied by exaggerations, etc., etc., they are frightful in  _~e extreme. The fluttering of a leaf matters naught, but when the millions of the forest are stirred,  they send a mighty murmur on the breeze.  Will you not, but I forget, I was not to ask you any more questions and you may, too, still have  the headaches. I hope it will not be perpetual, for when it passes away, I intend to overwhelm you  with questions, all of which I shall expect to be satisfactorily answered. I hope you won't forget. I  dare say you are inwardly saying, "What curiosity gentlemen have their share of." It's also, as  persons have found out by experience, the best of teachers, you know.  I am just going to send a letter to Mary Wilson in which I told her to "set her cap" for you, as I  judged from the line of her last letter that she must have been considerably taken. Don't you feel  flattered, vain, that ladies should make you, in part, the subject of their epistolary correspondence?  We are pardonable when books cannot be the subject and there are still some who, with ears polite,  have not that happy talent for gossip. I am going to take to politics, women's rights, or something  of the kind soon, or, as a last resource, "will begin to sigh, look pale, go neatly and be most  apparently in love." All things else are growing old and the weary spirit begins to long for some  new pastime.  I said I would write you only two pages and here are three almost, to my astonishment, and I  Have not finished yet. So I suppose the fourth, or at least a part of it, is doomed.  qlP. '3D.'5c11o.0C}..  CH. 5.D s~. 1i.L
About that person who wants to "get out of the woods." All that I can say is I am very sorry for  him. If he cannot hit, a woman will. If he is a friend of mine, certainly I will offer my assistance  with pleasure, although it be but feeble, for I'm only slightly segmented with human nature as yet.  That sounds rather dull from the pen of one who has almost arrived at the venerable age of eighteen,  time in which one might have laid by stores of observation and experience, but don't expect too ·  much. I am from "the country" and consequently must be rather verdant.  I am going to close after all that I have said. Don't you think it is enough? I know you do.  Now, Enoch, if you say a word to me about letters or writing within a month hence, I will look  very black at you as the saying goes. I'll blame all the ill that is done upon you, for you artfully  excite my womanly curiosity to such a ? that I am obliged to promise, rashly or not, tis all the same.  But I will not be very unforgiving. I am frightened at the length of this note. Au revoir, yours  sincerely,  Box #437  Annie  qlo . 30. 5dVl.Od  () I z" , &lt;.-.Ji:, {J J..I




Princeton, January 11, 1855  Doubtless you are waiting hopefully, nay,joyfully, for an answer to your last, but oh! long ere  you have done reading this, I will have one friend less and shall no longer live in your esteem.  Enoch, the spell is broken. I have lived in a dream and now awaken to find what is reality and that  reality is that my affection for you has grown cold and although it costs me many a severe and  silent pang, I must tell you that, with the love I now bear you, I am not justified in being anything  more than a friend. Absence has been the test. 'Tis well. I would no longer subject you to a  wavering fancy and fickle mind that bring no joy to the possessor and shed no light on the  happiness of others. Forget me forever. I will not, dare not, say all I feel. They would be but idle  words. But you once believed what I said and I never told you that which I did not feel, so believe  me now when I tell you that your confidence shall ever be kept sacred. None shall know more  from my lips than they have known before and you know what that is. As I have said before, it  would be mockery to tell you the feelings of my heart, only I wish that hate reigned instead of  indifference. The struggle between conflicting emotions might be less. I would that I had my  eighteenth summer to spend again. A heart, which I believe has ever been true to me, would be  happier now and my own would feel much lighter with the consciousness of not having given  another pain. And now, Enoch, I will refrain from saying more. You may call me cruel, false,  deceitful and the consummation of all that is untrue, for it may not seem like anything else. From  the world, I look for it. It cannot reach into the deepest recesses of the heart, no more but that eye  ich sees all things and that power which will bring all hidden things to light. Farewell,  Annie  Your letters shall be sent as soon as possible. From you, I expect the same.  A facsimile of a letter written one winter's night when I was afraid the object of my affections was  coming to see me. I send the letter back to him today, three years after, at his request. July 18th  ,  1858.  q lot 30. 5db.' \



July 31 st, 1855  The note for which you have written is .also destroyed. Not thinking it of much importance  to anyone, I burned it, and allow me, for your satisfaction, to inform you, that I have nothing  that you have ever written me in my possession.  Annie W. Baker  Absence from home prevented my replying sooner.




November 3, 1855  I had thought of sending your letter back unanswered, but I have since concluded that out of  ustice both to you and myself, I ought to answer it. Indeed, circumstances have so turned up that  : deem it absolutely necessary, for I am afraid a wrong impression of things has been given you.  Mary Martin gave me your letter to read and I cannot but think that she did wrong in saying  vhat she did to you, at least if I can judge rightly of what she has written, to call forth your  'eplies, etc. I think she speaks too assuredly of what she knows nothing about, from me at least. I  Lm sorry she did so, for she is perhaps doing you no kindness, (although she may mean it) and she  nay be placing me in a position I would be careful to avoid. At all events, I think there is no need  )f a third party.  I have spoken kindly of you, not only sometimes, but always, and I do not think I would speak  )therwise, even if I felt differently. I do feel kindly towards you and am glad to hear that the letter  )f which you spoke was misconstrued. Yet, I cannot help thinking that it was rather severe, for  ny feelings after its reception were very different from those before. As for my reply to it, I can  )ffer no excuse whatever. It was altogether the most undignified, silly piece of trash I ever did  nyself The injustice of writing, I must confess, I felt all I said for days after, but I did very wrong  )y indulging in such thoughts, however great the provocation. But it is allover now and I hope its  lemory may be forever blotted out from the words of the past. I am willing to meet you in the  ,ame position we occupied previous to June a year ago, provided you mean that of friends, and  riends only, forever.  I was not in the least surprised that you did not come to see me during your visit in  follidaysburg. I was glad you did not, and thought the better of you for not coming and more  han that, (if you will pardon me), I should have thought you positively imprudent if you had  ~ome, trusting to an amiable reception, merely from the testimony of friends. That, I devised to be  rour reason, a very good one, I am sure.  I hope I have said nothing in this to wound your feelings, for indeed, I do not want to anymore.  would if I could, be friends with all the world at the same time.  Jox #437  Yours sincerely,  Annie W. Baker





Friday night  Dear Enoch,  The Circus is not, so imagine the subsequent disappointment of your  pleasure-loving friend who took all the trouble to ride on horseback, too, up  to Altoona, but I may not longer deceive by saying with the expectation of  sight-seeing. I have had a delightful ride this evening which might as well  have been taken last. We did not gallop over bright hills and shady dales for  the moon had not risen, so I, of course, did not feel at all romantic, but was  ready to talk in a .style well-suited to my bachelor brother. Engagements,  understandings, etc. were not talked-of for more than an hour and I was not  advised the best mode of acting in case I should ever be caught. Oh! no, not  at all. It is nothing less than marvelous that your people always will talk of  love when there are so many other fruitful and surely less stale topics of  conversation. Give me a reason, won't you, for I have never yet been able to  solve the query. It cannot arise from a warm heart and affectionate nature in  all cases, for as you said not long ago, "Man may smile and be a villain."  Lo, he may and my ideas upon the subject are that half of the world is  composed of that kind. Is not that confidence in human nature? It does not  however prevent many from deriving the same amount of happiness they  would were it otherwise, for tis "though deceived, believing still." But what  have I been talking about? It was not my intention to dream, but to sit down  and ask you all the questions I ever have asked you which are still  unanswered and all I could think of that had yet been unasked, so that you  might form some kind of a correct opinion of my unbounded curiosity, also  to try once more and if I might, escape the opportunity of giving up in  despair. You are so considerate as never to ask me many questions or else I  am so obliging that I answer all. It is either one or the other.  About that stolen glove, there is no use in saying anything, for it was  recovered without even the slightest confusion on my part such as your letter  demanded. You must either have forgotten the acknowledgment under  which it was to have been given or else leniency took the place of  forgetfulness. People do forget sometimes. I know it from sad experience.  Annie Porter and I always have so many secrets to tell when we get together,  at least, so we think in absence, but when the happy time comes, all is  .~ forgotten except the happiness experienced whilst together. Oh! yes, you  wanted to know why Annie did not send you papers. She is not in the habit  of sending them to anyone, that is, gentlemen, neither does she correspond,
unless with cousins pretty far out sometimes. This is the best plan, too. If  you want to keep clear of flirtations, don't have anything to do with lead  pencil and newspaper margins. It never ends there. Such may not always  prove the case, though. I am only speaking from my own experience. Do  you remember "I am willing," Enoch? That was one act of impulse I have  sometimes regretted. It was only for the sake of mischief I did it and my  object was accomplished in the end, was it not? although in a different way  from that I expected. Letters are queer things, so are thoughts and so are  words. I think we should be more careful in our selection of the letters when  the happiness of hearts may depend upon one only, the fate of nations upon a  few. Isn't this letter long enough for you, Enoch? Four of my pages are  equal to your eight anytime. Your hand is so much larger. If you really  think I grow tired reading your letters ere I finish them, you must have an  humble opinion of yourself. I hope you will believe me when I assure you  that I have the first letter yet to arrive from any of my correspondents of  which I may grow weary. I got one not long ago which was 36 pages and as  I burned over the task, I sighed for more. "The more we have the more we  want," proves true in many cases. It matters not how many pages are  written. The last is read with the same, and, it may be greater, interest than  the first. Won't you give me several of those unwritten pages in your life's  history in the next? If you get this letter on Sunday, don't you dare to read  it. Enoch, if you do, the punishment inflicted may be worse even than the  congealing pang which seizes a trusting bosom when betrayed. Isn't that  strong language? Saturday afternoon - what do you think? I was surprised  by a visit from Clare Porter this morning. It was delightful to see her and  hear all about Alexandria. She told me all the news and among the rest of  your being here on Thursday evening. 'Tis well Altoona is kept so well­employed  of it, cannot be a more honorable occupation than gossiping. I  think I shall try and forget some of my friends when I go away, but I will  stop now before anything more is said, so goodbye, "Mr. Banks," wishing  you a bountiful store of happiness. I am the same as ever,  Annie  ...... ..., ......... \ 1 ,-"\





Alexandria, July 7th  For once and a wonder I am as good as you would have me be. Here I  am writing you even before you desired or before you expressed the wish  that I should drop you a line on Saturday. It is only Friday night, but almost  late enough to move into the next day, but "estee,med Sir," this letter is not  intended to consist wholly of an apology for past, present and future actions.  However, I am perfectly independent. If you don't like the letter, don't read  it.  I have been enjoying myself as you may suppose and am perfectly happy,  of course. Have looked at the moon many times and talked much about  love, but still am not lunatic. Wonderful Annie and I have beautiful times  together. If your ears did not burn one evening this week, at least, never  believe in omens again. They are not true, even if happy sunshine, bursting  forth after a heavy storm, was once upon a time indicative of the dawning of  bright hopes.  I received the letter and magazine on Wednesday evening - many thanks  for your kindness. I hope and imagine I appreciate it. If you had told Co.  Patterson anything of which you spoke, oh! Enoch, you might have regretted  it, perhaps. I do not know whether you would care for what I would or  could do. I did not know that you and he were such intimate friends.  Judging from what you told me of the issue of his fIrst editorial that you  would not be very congenial. Poor fellow, I pity him. His heart has been  divided in so many pieces, I would despair of the fragments ever collecting.  I expect you are in Hollidaysburg by this time and perhaps have been  reveling in the delights of the grand show. Some of its curiosities have fIrst  passed here.  I wish you had been with us, Enoch, to enjoy some of our moonlight  rides. A party of us went over to Huntingdon the other evening and I think I  never witnessed anything so grand. Words are too tame to express the  beauty of the scene and the feelings it awakened in each heart. No sentiment  prevailed, of course not. Perhaps I wished for you once, perhaps not at all.  A gentleman possessing so much vanity, of course, will come to a  conclusion most favorable to his own feelings. Are you angry? Of course,  you cannot be. Knowing the character I bear, consequently, you know how  to take me. Annie and I are going up home on Monday. I shall be glad and
sorry both, for I have enjoyed myself so much, but most glad will I be  (Annie also) to escape the disagreeable pressure of Will C. A.L. He is  anxious to meet Annie and myself together as he has important business to  settle. Ifhe is not mistaken, I think it is settled, at least satisfactorily, to two  of the parties. I suppose you saw the gentleman whilst in H. Have you  anything to tell me when I see you? I only ask it wondering if you have.  But I'll refrain from asking any questions at present as I must be done with  this miserable scrawl. I am ashamed to send it. Blame it all on the intense  heat of the day and I'll feel better, although laziness may have a little to do  with it. Annie Porter wrote you a long message but she will not send it. I  wish you could see it but I dare not say anything about it. She sends her  kindest regards, thinking your heart is not able to contain any more love.  Yours as ever,  Annie  Enoch A. Banks





Saturday night  Dear Enoch,  If I must write, I suppose I shall have to or the consequences of not doing  so may seem as dreadful to me as did the command. Annie Porter said she  would not do it if she were me, so I find there is still another person in the  world who has a higher spirit than myself. Must is a worse word than  perhaps and I hope you are not as fond of using it as I am the latter. Now,  enough of this or you will not think this letter worthy of a perusal at all. We  have just been enjoying Mr. Ayres' sweet society this evening, consequently  you cannot expect any thoughts to be at all collected. When a young  gentleman of his fascination has been making such havoc upon them, I could  not but regret that the moon was not up.  How are your spirits? I hope better than when I last saw you. It seemed  almost like a return of old times, rather times just gone by, which I had  fondly hoped might never return. I did not expect to see you looking grave  so soon again. I, too, indeed, began to give up to the influence of the same  spell, grow perverse, doubting? I only doubted your love because you  accused me of those faults and maybe, too, because my affection was not so  bountifully given as received, that if feelings did not glow brightly within  my own breast, I might mistrust a brighter existence in that of another. But I  would learn as others that "there is no day so long and bright but clouds do  not flit by and cast their shadows." I have had the blues for the last two or  three days, wherefore I know not. Sometimes there does come a vision to  mar the beauty of a dream, a cloud to dim the horizon of a fond hope, but if I  say much more you'll call me sentimental and I consider it by no means an  enviable compliment to be called such. Villain is nothing compared to it. I  am sorry if I hurt your feelings when I gave you such an honorable title.. I  surely did not mean it, Enoch, and you know I did not. If I really thought  you believed all I say, I should be very guarded, but I think there is no  necessity, is there ? You say my example may be good or bad. Please tell  me which of the latter I shall try withdraw it for it must have some effect. I  think there never were two persons thrown together who had not some  influence over each other, although one might chance to be much weaker  than the other.  I do ,not think suspicion is a natural concomitant of love. Whoever said  so could not have thought that "love is blessed," a subject upon which most
persons agree. Do you believe it? I think it depends much on circumstances  and still more upon the character of the person.  I shall endeavor to express myself more clearly henceforth that room may  not be left for unpleasant inferences. I will cause you to commit sin  tomorrow by reading this note, but it was late when I commenced it.  Sending by mail was out of the question and I have a sure opportunity of  handing it to nature, I suppose her suspicions will be greatly aroused at the  frequent exchange of notes, but I am growing restless, so care not. Shall I ?  be myself yours as ever again? I meant when I quoted it that I was as I had  ever been, your friend. I am afraid to say affectionately for you dared me, so  I'll say with attachment, your Annie.









Thursday evening  Dear Enoch,  You will surely not call me a cruel girl for a little while to come when I  have seated myself this very evening to write to you. I wish you would tell  me what to say that would please you most, for indeed I do not know. It is  between the witching hour of twilight and twelve and I expect all my absent  friends as well as nearer ones are asleep or dreaming, your honorable self  not excepted, busily lost in dreams, I dare say, as all romantic and young  gentlemen are, particularly of a moonlight night and such as this. You  would have been in an unpleasant reverie this afternoon. What was the  matter, pray? You looked dolefully. I suppose I dare ask you now a few  questions at least, with a hope too of having them answered. May I? If so, I  conjure you Mr. Banks (it would be impossible for me to write without that  in it.) forthwith to tell me what causes those sad looks much to the  discomfort of Mary and myself. I hope it was nothing that I did although if I  did say I cared, I suppose you would not believe me. You think I really  don't care, but I can't tell when you are injest or earnest, so take all for the  best. I almost believed you today when you told me you had called  yesterday and in several other cases. You must know I am becoming very  credulous so you had best not trifle with me. I have just finished a letter to  Annie Porter in which I gave her a long, though perhaps not a very severe,  lecture about that secret existing between you two. You know I always had  a combination of jealousy and curiosity in my nature and, til now, only  beginning to develop. I told her (maybe not exactly in the same words I was  told) that she was 'destitute of all the feelings which were necessary in  composing a generous nature' and ever so much. I suppose I dare hardly  expect to hear of your having seen Annie as you thought it highly  improbable. Why didn't you write her to meet you at the creek? I might  have suggested that before as you know she is in the habit of doing such  things. You might have heard something, if not important, at least very  entertaining. Oh! I forgot to tell her how you were hoaxed. Shall I?  Everybody does not know it yet so you are happily disappointed. How very  circumspectly you must be obliged to conduct yourself nowadays. Persons  seem to take such an interest in you. What a misfortune to be a public  character, is it not?  Enoch, how did you feel when those two ladies came into Mary's? D~d  the stormy billows rage within? I wonder ...
what they thought. "They've ne'er met by chance." I suppose I don't care  at all for being teased, for persons can grow accustomed to almost anything  and enduring it all my lifetime, I surely should be used to it, but I don't  fancy being caught in any sense of the word.  The fates were against me. I started long before I expected and in the  confusion left all behind except my heart. I was going to say but perhaps I  ought not be telling the truth. I was, however, stupid enough to forget that  book which I expected to have so much pleasure in reading. What a thief  you are for stealing my glove. Do you mean to keep it until I fulfill some of  the promises? Oh! well, keep it. I am .satisfied, for what did I tell you about  promises one time? You can surely trust the future in that case, but you  think they are oft-broken, oft-renewed, and there may be some truth in it.  My advice always is to 'trust no future however pleasant' but act, act the  living present, etc. Oh! dear, what an effort. I have not quoted any poetry  for an age. Don't you think it is rather sentimental for ladies to be always  spouting? You know what a dread your friend has of sentimentality.  Persons possessing those qualities always seem to me such 'sick for love and  can't marry' kind of creatures, if you know what they are like. They are  always pining over some new misfortune, go mad with grief because a  shadow fell where there should have been a moonbeam and therefore an  omen of their sad future. It don't harmonize with women's sights at all,  therefore, I don't embrace it.  You assigned some cause for not coming out on Wednesday evening.  You either did not tell me or else could not. I shall not ask you again but  wait patiently until you find it convenient to tell me. I am going to be proud,  too. I am glad, however, that you did not come, for I was not at home and  you were wise, too, knowing you would not have been received had I been,  for if you would not be noticed in a hunting suit, how could you expect it in  any other? What an inconvenience it is to have friends of which you are  ashamed or, more truly, friends who are so humble as to think so.  Imagination is a great source of unhappiness sometimes as well as delight.  But here I am almost at the bottom of the eighth page with the beautiful  addition of two neat little blots which you'll please excuse. If you call this a  short note, I'll never write you another.  _. _.. .... ... , I l'II. "'l
Those drawings! I may not forget this time. It were better I had given you  them before. I might probably here send some of my reputation and a little  of your good opinion. I was obliged to make them so small on account of  not having? material and I do not know upon the whole if it is not better,  more convenient and not so conspicuous. If you want some more I'll draw  them for you, but Enoch, I am not going to write you twelve pages. Won't  you forgive me for the many times my neglect has caused a false hope to  arise within your bosom and a walk to the post office and back in vain? I  will not ask you to answer this within any reasonable space of time for  'twould be unjust. Yours ever, Annie.  P.s. Please direct my letter in a small hand for if it has anything masculine­looking  about it, my brother will tease me 'til I tell him who it is from and  then for a double teasing.  q \o,~O,5d ,1  ~ I ;Ul ("eM..., i)"


Are you going to forget your promise, Enoch, in regard to showing? I don't see what  .lnade you break it when it was so faithfully given. I guess the good genius or ? you ? it was not  presiding at that moment else would you have yielded to the ?seriousness of temptation? I am  sorry, but still glad that you confessed so candidly the faults, for 1'd rather know things as they  really are than be deceived, though it should give pain to know them. "Tis best to know the  worst," you know. I am going to have a talk and maybe a lecture with you someday when an  opportunity presents.  Oh! How I wish it would stop raining. You don't know how sad it makes me fee1. I cannot  forbear looking upon the dark side of things, life's pathway clouded with shadows and life itself,  one gloomy day without a gleam of light. Tis wrong to give way to such feelings and foolish to  express them. Joy will break forth after while like summer's genial sunshine after a  thunderstorm. "To sigh, yet feel no pain, to weep and know no cause." I believe I have forgotten  the rest. I am already ashamed of what I have written, so will bid you good-night.  Box #437  Yours affectionately,  Annie  ~ \P.30.5d\P. D(P  n l :( h C,JJ, I'J/_




Monday night  Dear Enoch,  You are not wrong in regard to the address. That street I wrote upon the card is quite enough  to convey the letter safely. The initials are L. C. and for them. It matters not, I guess. Shall I  give you a lecture for inattention? Or was it only absence of mind? I think I have noticed the  latter frequently. Pray and where do all those stray thoughts go to, the land of daydreams or  regions of poetry? You are poetical entirely. I expect the consequences will be that you'll  abandon the law for the blissful science of poesy.  I will say tonight that brevity is the soul of wit and let your vivid imagination picture to you  what the remaining pages might be. You wanted to be pardoned and certainly you are. I did not  know that you had not thanked me. The affair altogether was so insignificant that I had ceased to  think of it.  And now a long, long farewell. I wish you many kind things and among them, that you may  spend the winter joyfully and pleasantly, as well as profitably. Good-bye.  Box #437  Yours affectionately,  Annie




Monday night  Dear Enoch,  I can only answer your note to refuse your reasonable request. I am sorry indeed that such should  be the case, but I cannot tell you. Oh! Do not ask me, for I must refuse. I am sorry that you are  troubled and would willingly relieve you, you know yourself, but I cannot. I must not, yet wherefore  should you be uneasy when conscious of rectitude in your own heart? What care you for what the  world might say?  You are not injured, Enoch, so do not give way to imagination. I am sorry that you should  suspect and are determined to carry out. I have suspicions. I regret also that an innocent person is  liable to suffer, but I can bear it all and repent of the thoughtless words I uttered when they should  have slumbered within my own breast. I can give you this much information upon the subject. That  which was told to me of you was by a warm friend of yours, who put as little faith in the saying as  myself. My sense of justice at present bids me not tell you who that person is. I dare not ask you to  let the matter drop for I see you are determined to trace it to its source, although I think you will gain  nothing.  : regret that I cannot gratify you and remove those unhappy feelings, for I know I never asked  you but one thing in vain. You will not ask me anymore, will you? I would like very much to know  how you heard what you did and from whom. Mary Smith said something to me on Sunday to that  effect but I did not understand her and had no time to ask her questions if I had. Don't accuse any of  my friends, Enoch, will you? If you do, it will be unjustly. But I'll say no more about it, for I may  only make it more mysterious when 'tis really nothing. You may reproach me for what has already  been said. I am willing and can only hope that "time will at last make all things even."  Thanks for your kindness, but I firmly decline both the buggy and horseback ride, preferring to  stay in the house. I hope when I see you again, that you'll feel more pleasantly than just now. A  strange world is this, strange are the people in it and "each heart knoweth its own bitterness." Good  night.  Box #437  Yours,  Annie




Friday Night  Are you angry with me, Enoch, that I still do not write? Perhaps I am deserving of the  appellation you gave me the other evening. I confess I might have found time, but inclination  was missing. Then why urge myself? I wouJd much rather think sometimes, as you know, than  do anything else. I have written but one letter since I last saw you and that was to Annie Porter,  of course, on business. Oh yes, and a note to Martha, a few moments ago. I inquired with great  interest the cause of your melancholy feelings and wondered why you should be so when bright  hopes were dawning beautifully before you, your pathway unclouded, etc., etc.  I have heard it said that intention to dream was the essence of a lie. But if so, I will plead  guilty in this case, rather than that people should find me out. Say you worse? Or do I set a bad  example? Alas! I never did know how to conduct myself properly and everybody will soon find  it out.  I hope you have been flourishing gaily since Wednesday and those "young hopes nipped in  the bud" have revived "neath the refreshing dewdrops, showers of I shall not say what,  knowing you to be a shrewd guesser and fond of solving enigmas, being rather enigmatical  yourself. However, I do not now say what I think. It would be rather unjust to say still that "I  know thee not." What a strange thing is human nature and the passions which fill the breasts of  Jman beings, particularly the one to which all others are but?, so the poet says. I do not know  whether I speak from experience or not. But shall I tell you what man's love has been compared  to? "A vagrant stream that fondles for a while with each flower upon its banks, then passes on  and leaves them all in tears." Is such the case? The comparison, I think, is in itself beautiful, but  whether apt or not is not for me to say.  I am perfectly lunatic tonight. If you could have seen the "pale orb" as I have seen it, its  gentle beams playing fondly through waving branches, then falling lightly amid somber shadows  beneath and the "spirit of beauty" still whispering softly everywhere. Oh! My, do you wonder?  Hannah Green was out here today and looking charmingly enough to captivate the heart of any  susceptible young man without even the effort of a sigh! She is coming up to spend some time  with me some of these days not far hence. Then maybe you'll see her. You never have had the  pleasure yet, have you?  I am going down to Annie Porter's before she comes up, consequently will not attend the  talked of picnic. I will not be greatly disappointed, hoping to enjoy all the charms of my H.  friends concenf!ated in her own sweet self. But the small hours are approaching and I must bid  you good-night with kind wishes. Sincerely yours,  Annie Box #437  q '0. 30. S~ to. 01  QL .~.J) ( ;.Ji."I f
