Transcript
Yes

Journal of Mrs. John Simonton (Sallie)    (Had a daughter Kate)    Joseph Gross – nephew        Harrisburg
Family Journey  Jan. 17, 1865    Today I made a voluntary promise to John if he would get me  a suitable book I would jot down in it some of our daily doings and sayings and thus keep a record of our little family. Here  after it may be very interesting to refer to and will serve to remind us of many little incidents in our lives and that of our child that may be pleasant to recall.    Jan. 18    Braided myself a pair of slippers this morning. At noon John brought home a letter from James containing his photograph and also some specimens of a seaweed gathered by him and Green  and sent as a little remembrance to Kate and myself. They are beautiful and look like delicate paintings and reminded me of the appropriate words:  "Call us not weed, we are flowers of the sea  For lovely and bright and gay tinted are we,  And quite independent of sunshine and showers-  Thus call us not weeds, we are ocean's gay flowers.  Not weeds like the plants of a Summer pasture  Where gales are but sighs of an evening air-  We exquisite, fragile and delicate forms
We nursed by the ocean and rocked by the storms."    Jan. 19    This has been an exceedingly cold day, quite cloudy betokening snow; true to their indications during the evening the clouds unfolded and little white snow flakes came down quite briskly for a while till the ground was white. They quickly disappeared and by ten o'clock the stars were shining brightly overhead.    Jan. 20    This morning when we awoke the sun was shining brightly. It dazzled our eyes to look out on the newly fallen snow. I muffled Katie in her coat, cap and mittens and Harry took her  sledding. How delighted she looked as I kissed her and bid her off and told Harry to take good care of her.    Jan. 21    This was Mother's birthday, in honor of which I had a turkey dinner and we dined at the fashionable hour of three instead of one O'clock, our usual dining hour. Who to look at her would believe she was sixty-eight years of age. I am sure I for one of her daughters will feel thankful if upon reaching her years I retain the freshness of looks.  To heighten still more the enjoyment of the day in the evening we had a social gathering--friends greeted and congratulated  Mother on the anniversary of her birth and together we enjoyed a delicious treat of ice cream and cake
Jan. 22  Sabbath morning-went to church and heard Rev. Mitchell preach from the words, "Lord remember me." and read a portion of "Bunyan's Pilgrim."    Jan. 23  When we awoke this morning and looked out it was very gloomy and was hailing, by noon it was snowing and by this evening it is raining. I began a letter to Lillie today to go by the French Steamer.    Jan. 24  Spent the forenoon cutting out work. Visited Mrs. McClure in the afternoon and while out bought John three handkerchieves and a necktie. Thought I would let Katie surprise him by putting  the tie Under his plate at tea. She did it but could not keep it to herself. As soon as he carne in she looked very knowing and said, "Pa don't know" and then the fun was up. Today began reading "Stumbling Blocks" by Gail Hamilton.    Jan. 25  We agree in pronouncing this the coldest day this season. The river froze over and looks beautiful-people are crossing on the ice. Sleighing now excellent better than we had for several  winters and the people are making the most of it. For my part I can not
see much fun in sleighing, it is too cold of an amusement. Yet it is a great pleasure to see their enjoyment of it and adds life and variety to the season.    Jan. 26  Today I have not felt well- I presume I have taken cold. Last night I was restless and could not fell asleep 'till midnight and was greatly troubled by flatulence--took my usual dose of brandy but it did not seem to relieve me as it usually does. The shoemaker sent home my new slippers that I had braided and taken to him to sole. I was greatly disappointed when I found that they were too small-doubtless he made them over my summer measure. I know no other alternative than to give him the slippers for the soleing and get to work and braid a new pair. Jos. Gross (sic) took Katie sleighing today.    Jan. 27  This morning John left on the eight o'clock train for Philadelphia to return tomorrow evening. This being Friday was, our baking and sweeping day. While Mary, the nurse, was busy I had to read to Katie out of' "Learning to Read", a new book I had bought her for a Christmas present. I carelessly said to her one day that I would read her a story every day and now  she keeps me daily to my promise and if we miss one day I must read two the next to make up for it. It is a pleasure to read to her because she listens attentively and remembers so well.    Jan. 28  Another cold day-indeed it is so cold that it is unpleasant to go out. One does not feel like straying from a warm room such days as these are. Sleighs are crossing the river the ice is so solid. I have been sewing and reading today. John returned from Philadelphia today. I had some oysters ready for him as soon as he would come as I think there is nothing so warm for nothing warms one so soon on a cold night as a dish of nicely stewed oysters.    Jan. 29  Sabbath morning. Slept late but in time to get my breakfast and prepare for church. John remained at home while I went to hear Rev. Snyder. Took Katie with me but I think it would have  been better to have left her at home. She was so restless that she kept me from enjoying the sermon as I would otherwise would have done. His text, "What think ye of Christ?" During the day read a portion of "Bunyan's Pilgrim" aloud for John's and my benefit and closed the day in mediation on a portion of scripture.
Jan. 30  Delightful morning, it has moderated and the sun is shining slightly. The warmth of its rays seem to infuse new life into everyone. While taking a walk this morning I met my friends and the general salutation was, "This is delightful! What an agreeable change in the weather!" At noon Mother was sent for to come and see Aunty Becky Kunkel who is quite ill. Katie went with Mr. Taylor to visit some poor so I was the only one in the house to receive Sue when she came at four O'clock.    Jan. 31  This morning Sue and Kate and I called to inquire how Becky was-found her no better. She is the only Aunt living on Father's side.    Feb. 1  Cloudy, damp day. At noon Sue left for home and Kate went to the depot to see her off. What a fussy body Sue is. She seems to rest only when absorbed in a book. The house is so quiet since her departure as though a troop had left. I wonder what she would say at this passing remark on her. This being Wednesday evening John and I went to a lecture.    Feb. 2  Slept 'till noon this morning and would not have waked then but Katie came into my room and called me saying that if I did not get up I would not get any warm buckwheats for my breakfast.  John was up an hour before but had gone to his office. The fact is that I did not rest well and thought I would sleep it off. Finished my letter to Lillie today. Mrs. Pomgen(not legible) and Miss Mattie Thompson called to see us in the afternoon. In the evening finished reading "Stumbling Blocks,"    Feb. 3  Lavinia our servant girl is gone home on a visit and as it was Friday usually a busy day with housekeepers we could all find plenty to do. It seems generally to be the case that the  busier one is and the less desirous to seeing the more likely they are to call. At least so it was today. It was employment for one person to answer the bell so incessant it was to tingle, tingle. Rev. Mr. Mitchell, our pastor, gave a friendly nod as he passed by the house today. I happened to be standing close to the window just in time for him to him to return a friendly smile and a polite bow. The news this morning was that Mr. Daugherty had died in the night. It is not more than four weeks since I met him on the street. He stopped to inquire how John's Willie was and entered into quite a long conversation
  on diseases-seemed to think Dr. Roberts was the most successful in treatment of diptheria. Poor man, how little he or I thought that this physician's skill would soon be baffled on his behalf.  Began to read today, "Pickewick Papers."    Feb. 4  We tried our skill today at making frozen custard but succeeded indifferently well only. The milk and cream we buy these days are so watered that instead of congealing the water with which it is mixed crystallized and will form a solid substance    Feb. 5  Not well today. Dr. Wolf is making his home with us for a day or two, having come up to take part in the service at the installation of' Mr. Snyder as pastor of German Reform Church.    Feb. 6  I am better today. Went downstairs to dinner and tea. Mr. Daughtery was buried today with the pomp and ceremony of the Catholic Church.    Feb. 7  John went to Philadelphia this morning. It has been snowing steadily and briskly all day and tonight several inches deep    Feb. 8  We are completely blocked in with snow this morning. The first sound I heard on waking was men at work with their shovels clearing the pavements and making paths for such who were obliged to venture out to market. It was a beautiful sight to see the men forming perfect embankments along the sidewalk. John came home this evening.    Feb.9  The sun shone brightly today, I ventured out to take a short walk-called on Annie Stoddard to pay her for my bonnet but she was not in, from there I went to see Donnie Kunkel who is sick  with diptheria, at least so the Dr. says who called while I was there.    Feb. 10  Mary Fay complains of a sore throat and is gargling with salt water. Last night she said very seriously to me, "Mrs. Simonton what if I should die I would not go to heaven." I asked her why she thought she would not and she replied, "I get too cross. I have a bad temper but I cannot help it." Startled me for a moment she seemed so much in earnest and fully to realize her besetting sin. I replied in earnest and said nothing we could do would save us but if she would pray to Christ he would give her grace to overcome the bad temper and would save her from all sin. This was as much as I
  continued to say but when I went to my own room I prayed for her that the Holy Spirit would lead her away from the dependence on her own works from praying to a saint and confession to a priest and to the only living and true sacrifice for him.  I received a letter from Lillie and one from Mrs. Blackford  today.    Feb. 11  Last evening Mr. and Mrs. Kramer from Lancaster came in quite unexpectedly and spent a very social evening with us. Kate and I were visiting this afternoon.    Feb. 12  Sunday, a bitter cold day, John and Kate were the only members of the family who went to church in the forenoon. In the evening there was no service in ours or the Refr. owing to the bad weather and the indisposition of the Pastors, both having colds.    Feb. 13  I wrote a letter to Mrs. Odgen today and sent her Katie's photograph.    Feb. 14  Katie was busy today as were her little cousins drawing and sending Valentines to each other. It is really amusing to see what delight they take in it-she was dancing and skipping around  all evening and every time the bell rang ran to the door saying it was a Valentine for me--they came so fast that by evening she had quite a little budget of them, one from Allie, Lillie, and Lottie wound up the performance of the day. I jokingly asked Jos. Gross today if he would like to take me sleighing and to my surprise he said he would if I would be ready when he called. He called at three o'clock. I heard his voice on the porch calling, "Aunt Sallie, I'm waiting for you." I muffled myself up warmly  and took a warm brick for my feet and off we started. As we drove up the bank .Jos. proposed we cross  the river and over we went on the ice to Fairview, hence down the railroad where we crossed  and ended our most delightful drive by driving around the town.    Feb. 15  Sue came up last night, as usual taking us all by surprise. She was full of investing a little in oil land and came to consult with her friends as to the propriety and safety of her contemplated  investment.    Feb.16  We were all saddened and surprised this morning to hear that there was no hope of Sade Brown's recovery. She died at noon leaving a babe only a week old.    Feb. 17  Went to Lancaster today to see Dr. Altee. John went with me to the depot where we had to wait on the train which was an hour and a half behind time.
  When it did come it was so crowded that I could scarcely get a seat and the air was foul that I became quite sick and faint, we did not reach Lancaster until near four 0’ clock having to wait for the evening train to pass.  I spent the evening with Sue, Mary, Katie and Johnny sitting around the table in the dining room. Sue was sewing and Kate and Mary reading, and I lounging on the rocking chair.    Feb. 18  Came home today at four o'clock. John was waiting at the depot to meet me but we missed each other, and I was quite surprised when he came home and found me sitting in the parlor.    Feb. 19  Went to church this morning and beard Mr. Mitchell- in the evening Mr. Snyder preached in our church on the Bible it being the anniversary of the Harrisburg Bible Society.    Feb. 20  Sadie Brown was buried.    Feb. 21  It was so beautiful this morning that I took Katie and went out to take a walk and to do some errands. We called at the bank to have a note changed--from there we went to Mrs. Margaret Whitesides to pay her for some sewing. Katie -had to play with her old cat and some chickens. Mrs. Margaret brought a pretty white bantam into the room and gave Katie some corn in her hand to feed it--she soberly remarked that, 'It was a dirty fowl."  At which Mrs. Margaret and her mother laughed heartily.    Feb. 22  This morning and during the day cannons were fired in the memory of Washington. In the evening we all attended the Christian Commision in the school of the Presbyterian Church. What a great and good work this commission is accomplishing--if I ever wished that I was wealthy it was last night that I might have given it to a good cause. God bless our noble Armies, and open the hearts of those who have it to give liberally.  Wrote a letter today for Katie to her cousin Allie Simonton and sent her Katie's photograph.    Feb. 23  This was a day of prayer for colleges. It was observed by a union meeting of the new and old congregations in the lecture room. It was a very interesting time. Mr. Robinson and Prof. Colburn  made some excellent remarks.
  Feb. 24  George and Kate went to Lancaster this morning to have a slight operation performed on George's arm by Dr. Atlee. They returned in the evening bringing the lump which the Dr. cut out  in a small vial of spirits as proof of the Dr.'s skill.    Feb. 25  Finished my gown that I was sewing during the week. Made some excellent ice cream.    Feb. 26  John and I were out in the morning. In the evening heard.  Mr. Mitchell from Paxton.    Feb. 27  Mr. Robinson told John there were four hundred wounded soldiers to pass through here in the course of the evening and the ladies were to supply them with something to eat. He wished  he would apprise his wife of the fact. Kate, Lib and I prepared what we could on short notice and took it to the soldier's rest. It was really surprising to see the quantities of provision  gathered together, by each family contributing their mite sufficient to feed a large number of hungry soldiers.    Feb. 28  Received a letter form James today, and Kate a joined one her little cousins in Williamsport.    Mar. 1  Went to lecture alone. We had a full meeting and some excellent remarks upon the words of the Psalmist, "Teach me to number my days that I may apply my heart with wisdom."    Mar. 2  Called upon Hr. Mitchell in his study at Mrs. Ross’ and had a pleasant talk with him. He said he was very glad to see me and invited me to repeat my visit.    Mar. 3  Sewed most of the day and made Katie a night gown. Katie received a present of five dollars from her Uncle James in Pico.    Mar. 4  Attended the noon prayer meeting to pray for the President while he was being inaugurated. We enjoyed seeing the ice break up this afternoon on the river. It was a pleasant sight to see the heaving and crashing. Here and there it was piled up like little icebergs and one could fancy themselves in the region of Greenland. Owning to recent heavy rains a few hours sufficed  to carry it down stream.    Mar. 5  Sabbath--a beautiful clear bright day betokening the approach of Spring.
  Mar. 6  John and I spent the evening in the parlor alone. He read to me out of " Looking Towards Sunset”, a new book Mrs. Bomberger presented to Mother on her 68'th birthday.    Mar. 7  Not well today. John too had another attack of cold in his nose--it is quite red -and inflamed and he is feverish.    Mar. 9  Received a letter from Bell and one from Thomas. Mr. Snyder called in the evening and spent a social hour with us.    Mar. 10  Was busy sewing most of the day. Took a walk in the afternoon and found the air too chilly and very much like March weather.  Mar. 11  A while before sunset Katie and I walked to the waterhouse to view the river-- what a noble looking stream it is now that it had burst its icy fetters. Yet the water looks dark and turbid  and it rears and dashes impetuously along as though it was glad to be free.  We called on Annie Lyon and young babe--what a tiny tiny creature it is. I'm sure I never saw as small a one.    Mar. 12  A beautiful, bright clear Sabbath. Went to church morning and evening.    Mar. 13  John went to Philadelphia at noon and returned in the night. Mr. Mitchell called in as he was passing by and we had a social chat together.    Mar. 14  Finished Katie's four night gowns today and marked her name on them in indelible ink.    Mar. 15  Went with John, Kate and Bell this evening to hear Murdock read. This was the second time I heard him and was better pleased , than before. The proceeds went to the benefit of the sick and  wounded soldiers.
  Mar. 16-17-18  Ever since we have become friends and that was a long time ago even so far back as I can remember for I was born and reared on its banks have I seen our usually placid river rise in such  bold and defiant might as during the three days named, the Spring freshlet affected by its devastating power. The bank was daily thronged with people, who with no little interest watched and waited to see if the old railroad bridge would give way before that mighty current of the swollen waters as they rushed against its side. Almost contrary to ones most sanguine appellations, with the aid of ropes and iron stays it passed safely through the crisis its shattered sides wearing witness to the severity of the contest. Good for you old bridge, we begin somewhat to change our opinion of you and have more respect for your strength. Doubly so when we recall how nobly you have sustained your part during the four years of our nation's strife-- morning, noon ,and night you have been made to groan neath the weight of troops and munitions of war, born crops on their way to the front and now last but not least you come off conqueror over waiting forces of many waters.  Meanwhile the water began to creep stealthily over nice green sward laying waste trees and fences and coming nearer and nearer in our very abodes taking lordly possession and shoving out lawful owners. What was once terra firma became a wash of water navigable by small craft. Here and there were to be seen some half dozen heads peering out of the top most story of a dwelling while beneath was a little barge unloading the contents of bread and food for hungry inmates. Many willing to lend a hand in hour of need could be seen rowing women and children and even babes to places of shelter, and fun loving boys whose tender feelings were aroused aided in  saving children, pigs and fowls of every variety from watery graves. At this junction of affairs river, canal and creek waited forming one most sea of water truly there was united one  vast sea of water, truly there was, "Water, water everywhere and not a drop to drink."  For three days we lived on an island holding no communication with the outer world around us every avenue of ingress and egress being closed. No water, no gas, the works for a time being submerged so we were transported to primitive times and made to realize the  difference between conveniences of the present and inconveniences of the past.
  Mar. 19  Sabbath I was not able to go to church this morning or in the evening, there was no service in any of the churches owning to gas works being flooded, they could not supply the gas. How strange it seemed to burn candles, it was sitting half in darkness. I told Mother I thought in olden days they could hardly tell what a friend looked like when they called with such dim lights for as she and Kate sat in one end of the parlor I could scarcely see their features by the dim light of the tallow candle. She replied the bright lights spoil ~our eyes.    Mar. 20  Kept to my bed all day. Finished reading The Four Sisters by Frederick Paremer.    Mar. 21  Went downstairs today and walked in the yard it was so warm and pleasant but returned to my bed.    Mar. 22  A blustering day. Began diary of "Keilty Percy Lyon" by the author of the "Schonberg Latte Family", the later read last summer at Helen's suggestion and was anticipating telling her how delighted I was with then when the news of her death reached us.    Mar. 23  I am better today. I have received salt water bath for my back and hope it will do some good. At times I get very blue about myself and I think I will never be a well strong woman again but I wait and hope.  Received a letter from Green today in which he says the priests are becoming somewhat aroused to opposition on account of the success of his mission and they have been stirring up some of the followers to make a disturbance at his meetings. In the Sabbath preceding the date of the letter the ninth--his own hands put out of the room two fellows who were making a disturbance and upon whom no moral persuasion would have effect.    Mar. 24  It is cloudy and cold today, with high wind and a sprinkle of snow. How glad I will be when strong. March is over and we are settling down to the calm, mild days of April and May.  Had a letter from Ursa Rittenhouse today.    Mar. 25  I am still very unwell. I guess I am doing as John says the Irishman said he did, "Always run back a half dozen steps to take a good start." All events
   hoping the mild weather will hasten my improvement. The Dr. gave me this encouragement that the coming summer will greatly return me to my usual health.    Mar. 26  Sunday. Was not out today. Mr. Raymond, still a student in the seminary, preached for us morning and evening. Mr. Mitchell being absent on account of his health.  John is very much pleased with Mr.  R.    Mar. 27  As usual Sue surprised us today at noon. Katie came running upstairs and said that her aunt had come. We readily guessed what Aunt she meant for we have learned to take Sue's surprises as a  matter of course.    Mar. 28  John is removing his office today to the one lately occupied by Adam Fisher in his new house at the corner of Second and Locust. In the course of the morning walk Sue and I called to see how things were progressing. Everything was going on finely and he hopes being done and everything in apple pie order by the time John Kunkel came home anticipating a pleasant surprise for him.    Mar. 29  Attended Mrs. Small's funeral today. Took my pictures of' Washington Irving and John J. Adams to Grands and had them framed. I think they look pretty in their neat wooden frames and quite an acquisition in the way of pictures to adorn my room with. Katie visited her Pa in his new office today. She was delighted with the idea of going and came home saying, "She thought everything looked very nice."  In the presence of her father today I was reading her a bit of Scotch poetry by the way of a little fun when the idea of weary world seemed to strike her very oddly. She began laughing very heartily and repeating "weary world."  Her Pa said, "Katie, it isn't a weary world is it?” "No," she said with emphasis, her face beaming, "No Pa." I took her in my arms and hugged her while her Pa replied," I hope it may never be so for you Katie.”    Mar. 30-31  Cold, damp, drizzling day, exceedingly unpleasant--I should think that those who are preparing to pull up stakes and change their place of living. I don't doubt that various signs of wind  clouds and
   weather sock were wistfully watched and the slight favorable turn in their position gratefully received by the many to whom the first of April comes as a moving day.  Katie has a tame chicken she calls Spotty which she daily feeds, in short she and spotty have quite an attraction for one and other.  She insisted on having a little corn to feed her today, but her being very busy said she had no time to give her any--at denial she went back to the coop and on the way met Auntie Kate to whom she said, "Spotty knows me Auntie Kate for when I come down the yard she goes Kal Kal imitating Spotty and I just do this, wagging her head from side to side and she knows I mean I haven't anything for her." She then walked away saying, "After a while spotty.1t    April 1  Comes clear and bright but was stormy. John, Kate and I have been very, very busy unpacking boxes and searching for books to fill the bookcase he brought from his office, having no further need for them there. We have put the bookcase in the back parlor and by the time we have all the books arranged in it we will have quite a miscellaneous collection. Still they are books and  will help fill the vacant shelves and from which we no doubt can gather a great deal of information on a variety of subjects.    April 2  Sunday. Today we had communion and there was quite a large accession of our membership not only by certificate but also a number going on profession of faith. There has been more than  usual interest prevailed in our church on the subject of religion since the week of prayer.  P.S. of April 2-- We have since learned while we were quietly engaging in our Sabbath worship our brave army was fighting the desperate battle which resulted in the rout of Lee's Army, the capture of Petersburg and Richmond and the assuring of the speedy  overthrow of the Rebellion and the four years of war.    April 3  There is great excitement prevailing through our town today owing to the encouraging news from our army. We knew that the army was moving and that for the past three days there was severe fighting but as to the result in dark suspense. But now
  official report confirms the statement that, "Richmond is ours" and Lee's army is routed--everywhere there is rejoicing, cannons are fired—the bells are ringing and flags are floating from points in our city.    April 4  John told us today it is worth our while to walk out Market Street and see how beautiful the flags looked, as there were so many and such large ones displayed--At this suggestion Kate and I  prepared ourselves and walked out--It was truly a beautiful sight-ropes were stretched from our principal hotels and houses on the opposite of the street and from them were suspended large and  beautiful flags, at times, in their graceful waving they almost swept the earth, then again they floated high in the breeze. Here and there lesser ones waved from the tops of public buildings and windows of private dwellings giving great variety and life to the scene--at such a sight we could not refrain from involuntarily repeating--  "The star spangled banner  O'long may it wave  O'er the land of the free  And the home of the brave."    April 5  Was busy sewing most of the day. Went with Mother and Kate in the evening to bear Mr. Snyder lecture. His subject was, "Long Suffering", one of the fruits of the Spirit."    April 6  I was busy today ridding out drawers and gathering together all sorts of patches as contribution towards the carpet Mother is making.  Today Katie came running from the balcony to tell me that a little bird was singing a dear little song. She said, "It's a very very little song" only emulating the bird "pe wit-pewit"  that I should come out and hear it. I have noticed with pleasure that she is very observant and takes great delight in the coming of the birds this Spring. At supper her Pa asked what she said to the bird when it was singing she replied,"I just said,'Sing on, sing on' ''    April 7  I went to see Mrs. Thompson this afternoon for the first time since her son died a few weeks since of hydrophia. Poor woman, she is indeed greaved it being the first death in her
    family and then such a horrible one too. Went to hear Gough lecture in the evening on "The Lights and Shadows of London Life."    April 8  Cousin Kate Burns is passing through on her way home from Baltimore.  April 9  Sunday. Not well today. Was not out to church morning or evening. In compliance with the request of the Governor the Pastors of various churches donated a part of the day in giving  thanks for our recent victories.  This 9 'th day of April, 1865 just as we were all snugly laid in our beds and just falling asleep we were suddenly aroused by the ringing of the Court House bell immediately followed by those of  various churches; everyone started exclaiming each to the other, "It's not fire. I wonder what the news is?" We looked out of the window and hailed the first passer by but so was the suspense that  every moment seemed an hour and the passer a long time in appearing. The announcement came at last. General Lee and his Army surrendered to General Grant. It was not long before the people were completely aroused and running to and fro with general rejoicing. A number of houses on Third street were illuminated, all the bells of the city ringing-- a large bonfire in the Square-- the various fire engines drawn up in procession ringing their bells and headed by citizens and soldiers parading the town with drum and fife playing Yankee Doodle, etc.-- not a house the windows of which were not thrown open and joyful faces appeared waving handkerchieves, nightcaps and whatever soonest attainable on short notice--Indeed we had cause to rejoice and everyone seemed to know and feel it and enter in at the zeal warranted by the occasion.    April 10  The rejoicing still continues-- cannons were fired this morning on the Capitol grounds and this afternoon two were placed in the park opposite our house and fired a hundred rounds. It was  grand to hear the sound as it reverberated along the distant hills on the opposite side of the river.
  April 11  We have continued cloudy weather for several days and although been compelled to remain indoors the rain has not dampened our spirits high and everybody wears a happy expression the effect of the recent joyful news. We are more than occupied reading the daily accounts of the demonstrations and rejoicing in all parts of the union at Grant's success.    April 12  No prospect of clearing. Mother, Kate Burns and I spent the evening at home while John and Kate went to lecture.    April 13  Mother, Kate and Cousin Kate Burns have gone to George's to take tea. Mr. and Mrs. Ehrman spent the evening with us. I will be very sorry when the times comes for Cousin Kate to go home. She is so lively and entertaining and we have enjoyed ourselves so much since she has been here.
