Transcript


Father died May 3rd 1927 Tuesday morn 5 AM in Middleton Dauphin Co. Jenna Buried Friday May 6th 1927 by D.F.Y. Presented by Dr. Jamison F. Young Aug. 1947     Ellington, Thursday, Jan. 1. 1862 The sun was out all day. I was reading all day. In the morning Mr. Hall had all the small boys in the village to come to the house at six oclock and he gave them a present of a book and talked to them. I went to Hydes at seven and I played a backgammon with Mary and Ellen till half past ten and I had a splendid time. Friday 2. I got up at eight. Mrs. Hall, Sarah Simmonds, Sophia and Gay went to Endfield. I was writing all fornoon. In the evening Rogers and myself went down street and got Anna Gunn and E. Pitkin to go skating and we stoped [sic] for Jane Thompson on the road we met Gay coming home and before we was
Ellington, Friday, Jan 2. 1863 on the ice long Gay came we was on belckes till after nine oclock. When I came home Mr Hall had Gay in the sitting room talking to him and when he was through with him he called me and the first thing he asked me was whether I kept whiskey and I told him I did and he asked me if I gave any to Gay and Mr Tucker and I did. Then he talked about the girls and my going to Hartford. The way he found out that I had a bottle was that Gay, Spalding, Clark got drunk and Mr. Hall found it out and Gay confessed. Mr. Hall left me to go to bed and told me he would see me in the morning.      Ellington, Saturday, Jan. 3 1863 I was around the house in the fornoon. In the afternoon I went to Hydes and got the girls and went skating on belckes and and the ice was splendid. We did not get home till after five oclock and Gay and myself went to the house and herd Aurthur’s letter read. In the fornoon Mr Hall talked with Gay and myself. He told me he would write for my farther to come and settle it but he did not. Sunday 4th I was in church morning and afternoon and in sunday school. I recited the 101 Psalm today. I went to meeting in the evening and I stayed for singing after meeting. After singing I was looking at to boys scuffling and when I looked around I saw Dr. Warren
Ellington, Sunday, Jan 4 1863 going out of the room shoving Miss Mary Hyde by the arm and all the people looking at them. I went home alone and I did not get to sleep till twelve oclock. Clear all day but rained in the evening. Monday 5th We did not have breakfast till eight oclock this vacation. At nine oclock Gay, Rogers, Field, Delanson, and myself went to belches skating and we found it would not last long so Gay sed he would write to the girls to come down but he would not tell me who he wrote to so I went after the Hyde girls and we had quite a party and we did not leave the ice till four oclock. Going to the pond Mary told me how it came that Dr. Warren went home with her. He went to her and took hold of her arm + without     Ellington, Monday, Jan. 5 1863 asking her if he might go home with her and he held her the same way the hole way home. I was at Hydes in the evening playing backgammon with Mary till ten. Tuesday 6 After breakfast I went to Hydes and got the girls and we went to belches and when we got there the Brockway S. Simmonds, M. Simmonds, Sophia and the boys was their and after we came Jane Thompson and Anna Gunn came so we had a nice party. We got there about ten and stayed till three oclock. It was foggy all day and water was on the ice. Mr Hydge brought us home. After supper I went to Mr. Hydes and I played backgammon, give game and promise with Mary. Mrs Hyde game me some Homopathy pills for my cold. It was raining when I started for home and they gave me an umbrella and when I came home Mr Hall
Ellington, Tuesday, Jan 6 1863 called me in the sittingroom and talked to me again about drinking. Wednesday 7. After breakfast Mr. Hall went to send the letters to the post office and one directed to father was missing and he blamed me and Delanson with taking it and sed we had ploted to get it. At recess rogers found it in Mr Hall portfolio the he sed Sarah Simonds took it and then put it back. I was in school from nine till noon and from two till four. Their was 12 boys the first day and non of the teachers. Mr. Hall even in school. We did not go in school in the evening. I got a box from home this evening. Mr Hall wrote eighteen pages to my father.      Ellington, Thursday, Jan 8 1863. We went in school at nine oclock. I did not recite but one lesson all day. Clowdy all day. Friday 9. I was in school all day but the boys have not come yet. Saturday 10. I was in school in the fornoon. In the the afternoon all the boys went skating on belckes and all the town boys and girls was on the ince but Miss Mary Hyde was not there. Their was about seventy on the ice. We stayed till four oclock then it commenced to snow. I was in school in the evening. All the boys came this evening. Sunday 11. I was in school in the morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. Clear and warm all day.
Ellington, Monday, Jan 12 1863. I was in school all day and in the evening. Very cold today. The boys was on the ice after school. Tuesday 13. I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day. Wednesday 14 I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society and we initiated the new boys. Thursday 15 I was in school all day and in the evening. It rained near all week. Friday 16 I was in school all day and in the evening. It rained near all week. Friday 16 I was in school all day and in the evening. Rained all day. Saturday 17 I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon. I stayed in the house. I was in school in the evening. Sunday 18 I was in school in the morning and in the afternoon. I was in church      Ellington, Sunday, Jan 18 1863 morning and afternoon. I was in meeting in the evening. Monday 19 I was in school all day and in the evening. Tuesday 20. I was in school all day and in the evening. Wednesday 21 I was in school all day and in the evening all the boys went to the conference room to hear a lecture on sunday school. We did not get back till nine. Thursday 22 I was in school all day and in the evening Friday 23 I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out and the streets was all mud and the snow as all gone.
Ellington, Saturday, Jan 24, 1863 I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I got Chapman’s horse and wagon and Sarah Simonds, Delanson and myself went to Rockville and we did not get back till five. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson. Sunday 25 I was in school morning and afternoon and also in church. I did not go to meeting in the evening. Monday 26 I was in school all day and in the evening. Tuesday 27 I was in school all day and in the evening. Wednesday 28 I was in school all day. In the evening I was in society and Mr Hall appointed Porter to take his     Ellington, Wednesday Jan 28 1863 place and Gay, Spalding, Houghton and myself volunteered to get a subject for next week and we went in the small resitation room and stayed there till the society was out. Thursday 29 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 30 I was in school all day and in the evening. Saturday 31 I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Olmstead and myself walked about the square and we went up on top of the
Ellington, Saturday, Jan 31 1861 church. I was in School in the evening. Sunday Feb 1. I was in school in the evening. Sunday Feb 1 I was in school in the morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. I went to meeting in the evening and I took Mary home. Monday 2 I was in school all day and in the evening. Tuesday 3 I was in school all day and in the evening. After tea I went down to Hydes and stayed till school time. It was very cold all day     Ellington, Wednesday, Feb 4 1863 I was in school all day. After tea I went to Thompsons and I played one game of backgammon and one of checkers with Jane. I was in society in the evening and Field was president and Delanson, Butcher, Dimond and Porer was pointed disputants to get a question for next meeting and when Delanson went in the small resitation room he fell over a bench that was at the door and when butcher went in with the lamp he fell over the bench and the lamp fell in the corner and bock and it all blaised and the boys went for water and I went to tramping the fire and I
Ellington, Wednesday, Feb 4 1863 got it all out except in the crack before the water come but I burnt my boots. After it was over we went on with society. Thursday 5 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 6 I was in school all day and in the evening. Saturday 7 I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I was at Thompsons playing backgammon wiht Jane we played six games. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson. Jillian was not expected to live till night.     Ellington, Sunday, Feb 8 1863. I was in school morning and afternoon and also at church. I was at sunday-school concert in the evening and I went with Mary H. Monday 9. I was in school all day and in the evening. Their is not a bit of snow on the ground. Tuesday 10 I was in school all day and in the evening. Wednesday 11 I was in school all day. After tea I went to Thompsons and I played a game of backgammon with Mils Henry from Hartford and Jane and Gay was playing cards but they stoped for some one coame to the door. I was in society in the evening.
Ellington, Thursday, Feb. 12 1963 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 13 I was in school all day and in the evening. E. Warner came from Elmira this evening. Saturday 14. I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon Warner and myself took a walk towards Ellington mill. I was in school in the evening. Warner roomed with me. Sunday 15. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school morning and afternoon. Clowdy all day. I went home with Mary Hyde from meeting. Monday 16 I was in school all day and in the evening. Tuesday 17 I was in school all day and in the evening.     Ellington, Wed. Feb 18 1863. I was in school from ten till noon. The whole school went skating on the march from eight till ten oclock. and all the town girles was their and I skated with M. H. In the evening I was in society. Thursday 19 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 20 I was in school all day and in the evening. Saturday 21 I was in school in the morning and in the afternoon
Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 21 1863 I was in my room. In the evening I was in school. Sunday 22 I was in school in the morning and afternoon to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. It commenced to snow about five oclock. Monday 23. I was in school all day and in the evening. It snowed all night. Tuesday 24. I was in school all day and in the evening. The snow is about 15 inches deep and sleighing is very good.     Ellington, Wed. Feb 25 1863. I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society and Mr Hall appointed me president for the evening. Thursday 26 The day appointed for prayers for colleges and at eleven oclock we went in the house and Mr. Hall talked to us till noon then we went in school till two oclock then we all went to meeting in the conference room. I was in school in the evening. Friday 27 I did not go to school today for I had headache but I went to preapritory lecture at two
Ellington, Friday. Feb 27 1863 oclock with Warner. Saturday 28. I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I was at Mils Booths till four oclock. I was in school in the evening. Sunday Mar. 1. I was in school in the morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. It was snowing, raining and hailing all day. I stayed in my room all evening. Monday 2. I was in school all day. After tea I went to Hydes and stayed till seven oclock and Anna     Ellington, Monday, Mar 2 1863. Gwinn was there at the door I give her a bottle of perfume for a philapena and she game me her potograph. I was in school in the evening. Tuesday 3. I was in school all day and in the evening. Wednesday 4. I was in school all day. In the evening I was in society and they appointed Spalding, Field and myself on the commity to get up Tableaus + Shurades for the next week. Thursday 5. I was in school all day and in the evening we was in the resitation room getting Tableaus and the teachers was their. Friday 6 I was in school all day in the evening the committy was
Ellington, Friday, Mar. 6 1863, in Mr Tuckers room. Saturday 7. I was in school in the fornoon and in the afternoon we was getting the Tableaus + charades ready. I was in school in the evening. It commenced to snow in the morning. Sunday 8. I was in school morning and afternoon. I was in church morning + afternoon but the snow was deep. Their was only a few in church. It commenced to snow Saturday morning and continued till Sunday evening. Monday 9. I was in school all day in the evening Spalding, Field and myself went to Mr. Tuckers room and arranged the tableaux and charades.     Ellington, Tuesday. Mar 10 1863 I was in school all day and in the evening the committee met. Wednesday 11. I was in school in the fornoon In the afternoon we did not have any school but the committee and Mr. Tucker + had to arrange the program while the rest of the boys was puting up the State and curtain. after the Stage was up we had to rehearse our peaces and get the thing ready for the evening We had tea at six oclock and we had to stand around the dining room and the guests in the
Ellington, Wed. Mar 11 1863 center of the room. The tableaux and charades commenced at seven oclock and ended at nine oclock. The school room was crowded. Thursday 12 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 13 I was in school all day and in the evening. Saturday 14 I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed in my room. Sunday 15 I was in school morning and afternoon. I was in     Ellington, Sunday, Mar 15/63 church morning and afternoon. I was in meeting in the evening. Monday 16 I was in the house all day with the sick-headache. Tuesday 17 I was in school all fornoon. After dinner we went sleigh riding. Mr Hall got a four horse sleigh and a two horse sleigh and at one oclock the whole school went sleighing. We went to the shakers and from their through Summer street we did not get back till four oclock.
Ellington, Tuesday, Mar 17/63 I was in the four horse sleigh and Houghton, Jillian and myself had the back seat and we broke down twice and Houghton and myself went into the snow twice. Lee was behind us with this team and Warner was with him and we throwed snow balls most all the time. We stoped at the shakers but could not get any [illegible]. We had a ride of about twenty miles and the sleighting was spledid. I was in school in the evening.     Ellington, Wed. Mar 18 1863. I was in school all day and in society in the evening. Thursday 19 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 20. I was in school all day and in the evening. Saturday 21 I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon. I was over at Thompsons playing backgammon with Jane. I was in school all evening. Sunday 22 I was in school in the fornoon and afternoon. I was at church morning, afternoon and evening. Monday 23 I was in school all day and in the evening.
Ellington, Tuesday, Mar 24 1863. I was out of school all day with a cold and I stayed in the sitting most of the time. Delanson was sent into the house by Thompson and Mr Hall kept him in the sitting room all day. Wed. 25 I was in school all day and in the evening. Thursday 26 I was in school all day and in the evening. After tea I went to Hyde’s and their was no person home but the girls and when I came back I got a letter from father with money to go to Hartford. Friday 27 I was in school and in the evening.     Ellington, Sat. Mar 28/63. I was in school in the fornoon. I was in school in the evening. It commenced to snow at noon and continued till Sunday noon. Sunday 29 I was in school morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. I went to meeting in the evening but I only went as far as the post office with Mary for it was too late but I got her ring to get one by for her.
Ellington, Monday Mar 30/63. Mr. Grisowld took Mr Hall and brother and D + myself to Vernon we got to Hartford at half past eleven oclock. We got our clocks first then photographs. After dinner I went to Steels and got a ring for M.E.H. that cost $8.00. We left Hartford at seven and did not get to Rockville till nine oclock. Their was a republican meeting in the hall and Deming spoke I stayed one houre. Their was a four horse team from Ellington. I got home at eleven oclock.     I was in school all day and in the evening It commenced to snow at noon and had not stoped when we had gone to bed. Wednesday. Apr 1st 1863. I was in school all day and in the evening in society. Thursday 2 I was in school all day. After tea Houghton and myself went walking and I left Houghton walk down past Hydes and I went in the parlor with Mary and I gave her my photograph and a ring a present.
Ellington, Thursday. Apr 2 1863 When Houghton came back I went with him. Fast day. Friday 3 We did not have any school today for it was fast day. We went to meeting in the conference room at half past ten and to church at half past one in the afternoon. Saturday 4 I was in school in the fornoon and in the afternoon I went to Thompsons and played backgammon with Jane. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.     Ellington, Sunday. Apr 5 I was in school in the fornoon to recite bible lesson. I was in school in the afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon and I went to meeting in the eve and I went home with M.E.H. and it was raining. Monday 6 I was in school all day and in school in the evening. Tuesday 7 I was in school all day and in the evening. It snowed and rained all day. Wednesday 8 I was in school all day. It snowed by sells all day and was snowing
Ellington, Weden. Apr 8 1863. when we went to bed. I wrote this journal in the supper school room about dust and the last Wednesday evening I spend in E. I was in society in the evening and the first thing was the secretary report by Spalding then the treasurers report by myself then the boys that leave made their farewell speaches and they are Delanson, Spalding, Clark, Field and myself then Porter, Houghton, Gay made speaches to those that stay then Chapman and Warner spoke then Mr. Hall. We had apples and popcorns. The society adjourned at nine oclcock     Friday the last day of school Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 9 I was in school all day and in the evening. Friday 10 I was in school all day and in the evening. Houghton and myself walked to Dr. Peases house and coming home I met Mary. Saturday 11 I was in school in the fornoon and I recited readers guide and spoke my peace for the exhibition. After dinner I went to Hyde’s and M. and myself went into the parlor and we was alone for over one hour
Ellington Satur. Apr 11 18636 then we commenced to play backgammon over a board that came from China Mary beat one game and I two. While we was playing Mrs Hyde and Ellen was in the room and after we stoped playing Emma Thompson came in the room and then we had apples and Mary read Arthurs letter to me. I took tea there at half past five oclock. I stayed a short time after tea then I started for school. When I first went down she gave me a choice of two pictures in the parlor.     Ellington, Satur Apr 11 1863. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson and it is the last Saturday for me in E. Sunday 12 I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson I recited the 3 ch. of John and the first 3 ch. of James. I was in school at noon to read bible. I was in school in the afternoon to recite barnes notes. I was in church in the morning and Stanley had the corner and I was next to him. Mary sat in the gallery. I was in church in the afternoon
Ellington, Sunday, Apr 12 1863. and I had the corner and M. had her place in the gallery. The last hymn that was sung was the 252. Sarah Simonds fainted in church. I went to sunday school concert in the evening and I sat on the seat back of Mr. Brockway and Rogers was aside of me. When meeting was out I went down and when Warren came down he stood on the left hand side of the door coming down stairs and I got on the right hand side and Mary was on the side that Warner was but when she saw me she came on the side that I was and when she got to the door he took her arm     Ellington, Sunday, Apr 12 1863. and caller her by name but she stook my arm and I went home with her and he got the mitten. After prayers Warner went to Gays room and stayed a long time. When he came to the room he lit the candle and undressed and he tryed to whistle but could not and he did not speak but once the whole evening. Monday 13 The first day of examination I recited my lessons as usual and also recited barnes notes, bible lesson and readers guide. Their was not one person in to hear us today. After school in the evening Warner invited Mary to the exhibition and he went down after her and took her home
Ellington, Monday, Apr 13 1863. I talked to him in my room before tea and he sed he did not blame me nor was not cross at me but told me why he did it. The exhibition commenced at seven oclock and the room was crowded. The boys that spoke are A. Mosley, F. B. Porter D. Young, M.W. Clark, J.W. Gilbert, J.A. Field, W.A. Hall, C.F. Houghton, R. Young, T.F. Lee, F.M. Gay, T. Rogers, W. King, F.M. Dimond, J.E. Spalding, E. Stanley. After the speaking we had to sit quiet till the people had all gone out then Houghton and I went home with Mils Sawyer and Booth then we walked on the walk a short time then went in the house and hegred some ladies play on the piano     Ellington, Mond. Apr 13 1863. and sing then Warner came home and he called me out on the walk and he told me all about the off air that happened on Sunday night. We had prayers at nine oclock. I did not go to sleep till after twelve. Tuesday 14 The second day of examination and I did not recite any thing but arithmetic in the fornoon. In the afternoon I recited rhetoric and grammar. School was out at four
Ellington, Tuesday, Apr 14 1863. oclock. I went as soon as school was out and engaged Gunns horse and carriage for the evening the I washed and dressed after tea I went to see Jane Thompson a few moments. At one oclock I went to Gunns and got the team and went to Hydes and I got Mary. We went around the mountain square and on to Rockville and from there to Ellington by way of the Ellington mills and from there up around the four mile square and then I took the horse home and went to Hydes and the folks     Ellington, Tuesday, Apr 14/63 wer all at home. Mary read a letter that they got from Arther that night and I eat an apple. I stayed till after ten oclock. When I started they gave me some apples and I got the picture that Mary gave me. I bid them all good bye and Mary went to the door the last I saw he she was at the door when I left. Wednesday 15 I got up at five oclock and after breakfast I went to Thompsons and from there to Miss Booths and I had a glass of ale and some apples
Ellington, Wed, Apr 15 1863. We left Ellington at eight oclock and arrived in Hartford at half past eleven and left at one for New York and we arrived their at five and it was raining we went to the Merchant and got tea and while we was at tea Killogy came then we went to old Bowery theater and after I was out it rained very hard we went to bed after eleven and got up at five oclock and after breakfast we started for Harrisburg.     Middletown, Thur. Apr 16 We left New York at six oclock and it was raining torrents when we left. Their was two land slides on the road and we did not get to Harrisburg till half past eight in the evening and I went to Uncle Tills and stayed all night. I came home in the morning train and I took a ride with father in the morning. Friday 17 I came home in the morning train and I was about home all day. I took a nap in the afternoon. In the evening I stayed home and wrote a letter to Mary and I did not get through till eleven oclock.
Middletown. Sat. Apr 18 1863. I was home all day. In the evening I went to the high school exhibition. Sunday 19 I went to church in the morning and sunday school. I stayed home in the evening and wrote letters. Monday 20 I was around the office all day and in the evening I was home. Tuesday 21 I was at the office all day and at home in the evening. Wednesday 22 I was halling locust trees in the morning and in the afternoon I was cleaning the peach trees. Thursday 23 I was around the house all day and evening.     Middletown, Friday, Apr 24/63. It rained all day and I was at the office all the time. Saturday 25 I was around the office in the morning and in the afternoon mother and myself went to the semetery and cleaned our lot and planted some flowers from there we went to the farm. Sunday 26 I arose at eight oclock and breakfast at nine. I was at meeting morning and evening and at sunday school. I took a nap in the afternoon. Monday 27 I was at the office all day.
Middletown. Tuesday Apr 28 1863 I was up at five oclock and took Lamen to the farm. At six oclock Forde and myself hitched up the two horse carraige and I took grandmother mother and Sue to Harrisburg to attend Kate Felix’s wedding. We arrived at Harrisburg about half past eight. At half past nine the guests all went to the parlor and at ten the Bride and Groom came in and Luckman of York married them. At eleven we went to the dining hall and did not leave till one then the bride and groom left for Milton. We started for home at the three oclock and arrived home at five then went to the farm. In the evening I was in the office     Middletown, Wed. Apr 29 1863. I was writing part of the fornoon and the rest I helped Jack Kirwin to measure a timber raft. I was at the office in the afternoon and in the evening I was writing letters till after ten. Thursday 30 I was around the office all day. Friday May 1st I was at the office in the fornoon in the afternoon I was picking weeds in the lot near the lower lumber yard
Middletown. Sat. May 2/63. I was counting shingles at the walnut tree all day in the evening I was at Zimmermans and Mils Murry was there. Sunday 3 I got up at eight and I was in church in the morning and at sunday-school In the evening I stayed home and write letters. Monday 4 I was counting shingles all day at the walnut tree. I was home in the evening     Middletown, Tuesday. May 5/63. I was around the office all day and it rained I had a very bad cold. Wednesday 6 I was at the office all day. I went to bed at eight for I had a bad cold. Thursday 7 I was at the office all day and it rained. Friday 8 I was counting shingles all day. Saturday 9 I was counting shingles all day down at the river.
Middletown, Sunda. May 10 1863. I was home all day and in the evening writing letters. I took mother to the farm about eleven oclock. Monday 11 I was at the office all day and evening. Tuesday 12 I was counting shingles all day at the river. Wednesday 13. I was counting shingles all day at the walnut tree. Thursday 14. I was counting shingles all day at the river.     Middletown, Friday, May 15/63. I was counting shingles all day at the river. Saturday 16 I was out at the form planting corn all day. The 127 Reg. came home today and James Miller came to the farm. Sunday 17 I did not get up till nine oclock and I went to church morning and afternoon and to Sunday school. Wednesday 18 I was at the farm before breakfast to take Carment out and then James Miller and myself went after time with the two horse team after that I was counting boards for canes.
Middletown, Tuesday, May 19/63. I was halling shingles to the canal all day and in the evening I was in the office. Wednesday 20. I was counting boards all day. Thursday 21 In the fornoon I went to Hummels town after the pumpmaker and I got Buffer Lowman to go along. In the afternoon I was counting boards. Friday 22 I was at the office in the fornoon writing letters. Saturday 23 I was working all day. Sunday 24 I was in church morning and evening. Monday 25 I was at the farm working and I went to Harrisburg to take the buggy up to get mended.     Middletown, Tuesday, May 26/63. I was working at the farm all day. Wednesday 27 I went to Harrisburg to take the sprind wagon up and bring the buggy home. In the afternoon I worked in the ditch. Thursday 28 I was working in the swamp all day. Friday 29 I was at the office all day. Saturday 30 I was at the farm working in the ditch. Sunday 31 I was in church morning and afternoon. Monday June 1 I took Mr. Landis to Coalbrook to look at some cattle for father but he did not bye any so we went to the farm and got over
Middletown, Tuesday, June 16 1863. I was out at the farm till noon then I came in town. The people are leaving Harrisburg today in carriages. In the evening the people called a meeting to rase a company for the 127 Reg. and I spoke before and crowd and sined my name to the list. Wednesday 17th I was at the office all day and in the evening. Thursday 18 I was at the office all day and in the evening. Friday 19 I was at the office all day. Saturday 20 I was at the office all day. Sunday 21 I was in church morning and afternoon and at Sunday School.      Middletown, Monday, June 22 1863. I was helping to haul boards all day. Tuesday 23. I was hauling boards all day. Wednesday 24. I was out at the farm helping in the ditch. I went to Harrisburg in the eve and stopped at Murries all night. Thursday 23 I got up at seven and after breakfast I left Murries and went to Elys and had dinner. I went to Elys and had dinner. I went to Harrisburg to get Ely to go in a cavalry with me but he would not go so I came home at half past one. The Friday/26 I was at the office in the fornoon and it rained all day. Saturday 27 I was home all day but did not do any thing. In the evening their was a meeting in the square for the purpose of starting a company.
Middletown, Sunday, June 28th 1863. At nine oclock we had a meeting and all that signed their names to the company fell in rank and Rover marched us around town and then we adjourned to meet at seven in the evening. Lawmen and some others would not go because they would not go out of town. At noon Father told me he would take me to Harrisburg if I would go over the river in the trenches and I told him I would so I told Miller and we got a crowd and left here about three oclock in two of our teams, one of W. Rifes and Miles W. Snyder. W. Sar. L. Elick. J. Antrin, J. Rife, Argood, O. Wieting, and Mary went to camp Curtin and drawed rations for eighteen men then we went in town to draw arms but it was to late so we stayed in town all night     Middletown, Monday, June 29th 1863. I got my breakfast a Boyers then I went to see Uncle Til. I go a gun in the fornoon and then I saw some of the men from town that came up to get arms to defend the town. At three oclock Wile + J. Kendig started with their teams with 240 gunds and 9000 rounds of cartridges and O. Wieting, G. Overman, May, W. Snyder, C. Snyder W. star, J. Antrin, L. Ebick and myself went with them as a guard. We got home home about seven and some of the boys had a fete. As soon as I got home Me Barron and myself started a company of young men and before ten we had 40 members. At ten eight of us was sent to the ford below the brick lock and we stayed till four oclock the next morning.
Middletown, Tuesday, June 30th 1863. In the fornoon we filled the company and organized and elected officers. Colonel. Captain. Lieutenants. 1st J. Landis. D 2nd Fisher. Sargents 1st B. Lowman. 2st B. Siple 3th Young then we adjourned till seven oclock. In the evening we went on the furnace hill and drilled. Wednesday July 1st I did not get up till nine oclock. I was at the office all day writing and sleeping. Our company was on picket all night from the point to the ford. I was stationed at the brick lock with eight men. Thursday 2 I slept most of the day. In the evening our company went on the furnace hill to drill.     Middletown, Friday, July 3. 1863. I was at home in the fornoon. In the afternoon I took mother to the farm. At twelve oclock in the night the foundry bell rang and all the companies came out fort it was an alarm but when they looked to see who rang the bell they could not be found so D. Campbell went in the shop and up in the garret we found two of the boys and down stairs we took them to the squir office and he charged them two dollars a peace. Saturday 4 I arose at six and at nine our company met at the hall and marched to the railroad to meet the other two companies and from there we marched all over town and then adjourned till evening. It commenced to rain at noon and continued
Middletown, Saturday, July 4th 1863. The Phila troups passed through town in the evening and father told me he would equip me if I would go so I went to Harrisburg and got Don Cameron to go to the captin and see if he would take me but he did not tell me for sertain till five oclock Sunday. Sunday 5 I was in Harrisburg all day. Monday 6.

John Douglas great-great-grandfather 1744 Mens Hall 1755

Presented to Dauphin County Historical Society of Harrisburg Dauphin County Penna by Dr Lamson James Young formerly of Middletown grandson of Col James Young Dauphin County Penna son of Redsecker I. Young formerly a member of your society

Pittsburgh, Jan 20 1864 $500%100 Sixty days after date pay to the order of Charles Houghton Five Hundred Dollars, value received and charged the same to the account of To Brown Brothers. New York. R.S. Young
Charles Houghton
Pittsburgh, Jan 20. 1864. Brown H. Please deliver to the fear Geo. Grown of Coal and charge the same to the account of R. S. Young.
