Transcript



Wednesday January 1, 1862  I got up at half past six after prayers we got our stockings and each one got candy, cake, walnuts and popcorn. We had chicken for breakfast. I stayed in the loor, school room in the fornoon. We had turkey for dinner and Warner was at the head of the table but he could not carve so Mr. Hall did it. After dinner Gray and myself went down to Ashleys store and had four glasses of scotch ale. In the evening we went to singing school and some of the boys was eating peanuts and throwing the shucks on the floor and the teacher spoke about it and mentioned Hall school and some of the boys came near getting into a fight. We came home at half past nine. The sun was out all day but in the evening it rained hard for two hours then it blew hard and got cold. The wind blew so hard that last night it blew the steeple off of the Thompsonville church.        Ellington Thursday January 2, 1862  I was not at prayers this morning for we did not hear the bell and Ben came up to waken us.
About ten Mr. Hall took Mrs. Simonds and the two girls to Endfield but he came back by half past one. Warner, Delanson and myself went to my room at ten in the fornoon and I got a pitcher of milk in the kitchen and dishes and we toasted over a half loaf of bread that I got from home and we made milk toast and we eat it all. We went from my room to dinner and we was the last ones to leave the table and the boys raised cain for there was not anyone there but the boys and Gardner found a worm in his bread. At half past one, Warner, Clark, Felix, Delanson and myself went to Moseleys and I beat Clark playing backgammon. Then Mrs. Mosley gave us popcorn, shelbarks. We came home by five o'clock and I eat supper. I went to see Mrs. Booth in the evening and Jane Thompson came and I got her ring and she tryed to get it of me but could not. I stayed till nine then I went home and the boys were in bed and the front door was locked, so I went to the kitchen door and went up stairs with my boots off but Mr. Hall did not know that I was out. The sun was out all day but the wind blew very hard all day.     Ellington January 3, 1862 Friday  I was up at Mrs. Booth's in the fornoon and I practiced one hour on the piano. In the afternoon I went to preparatory lecture. In the evening I went to the lyceum and the subject was resolved that ladies over thirty years of age are a burden to society and it was decided that they are a burden to society. I went to bed at ten. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 4  In the fornoon Felix and myself walked around the mountain square and we stopped at Decon Hammonds to leave some things that Mrs. Kenney wanted me to take up there. Then we stopped at Dr. Peases and Mrs. Peas gave us apples and cider. Then she told me some things about Mrs. Kenney. We got home by noon.
After dinner I wrote some letters. Warner fainted this evening when the doctor was feeling his pulse. Mr. Hall put him in his room for the night.             Ellington, Monday, Jan. 6, 1862.  Felix, Delanson, Gardner, Kellogg and myself walked. We started at six and stayed till nine oi'clock. We had wallnuts, cakes and cheas for refreshments. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 7.  In the afternoon all the boys went to Rockville. Mr. Ashly took us down in his two horse waggon. We left home at one o'clock and did not get back till after five. We all got our hair cut. When we started for home their were a crowd of boys around the waggon trying to raize a fight. The last day of vacation and the evening was the dullest. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 8.  The first day of school and their was sixteen boys here and onley one of the teachers. The sun was out all day. The thermometer was ten degrees below zero in the morning. In the
Ellington, Wednesday, Jan 8, 1862.  evening some of the boys came. We had society in the evening but did not do any thing but elect officers for the enitiation.        Thursday 9.  The second day of school but did not so much Some of the boys came today. In the evening the society had a meeting and we innitiated the new boys. The sun was out all day.     Friday 10.  I was in school all day. Clowdy with rain. In the evening the society met to choose regular officers.     Saturday 11.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was in my room studying my Parker's aids all afternoon. In the evening I was in school and had a bible lesson to learn. Clear and cold. The boys went skating in the afternoon.     Ellington, Sunday, Jan. 12, 1862  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. I went to Mifs Booths in the evening. It snowed last night and the snow is six inches deep. Foggy all day.     Monday 13.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The boys are not all here yet. It rained and made skating.     Tuesday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The boys ware skateing in the street. After school we went skateing on the ditch back o:f Charters and some of the boys skated from the school house to the ditch. We were there one hour. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 15.  I was in school all day. It rained and stormed all day but cleared off in the evening.
Ellington, Wednesday, Jan 15, 1862  I was in society in the evening and we had chestnuts to eat.     Thursday 16.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day but it was cold.     Friday 17.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I was over at Mifs Booth's in the evening and I had a rough and tumble with Jane Thompson. It was clear to day.     Saturday 18.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was in my room studing and writing. Clowdy in the morning but it commenced to rain at noon. I was in school in the evening learning bible lesson.     Sunday 19.  I was in schocol in the morning tco recite bible lesson. I was in church morning     Ellington, Sunday, Jan. 19, 1862.  and afternoon. I was in school after church. I was over at Mifs Booth's in the evening. It rained all day.     Monday 20.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I sawed wood two hours today. It rained all day and the trees have so much ice on them that some of the limbs broke down. I commenced to practice on the piano again after I was sick.     Tuesday 21.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clear and cold all day.     Wednesday 22.  I was in school all day and I was in society in the evening. It snowed all day. Mifs Upson came here in the evening and had a long talk with Mr. Hall.
Ellington, Thursday, Jan. 23, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It was clear all day and sleighing is splendid.     Friday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day. I prac:ticed on the piano today. We went to bed at half past eight.     Saturday 2..  I was in school all fornoon and had tco declaim and read. It hailed in the fornoon in the afternoon it rained. I was in my room studing from one to four ocloc:k then I sawed wood till tea time after tea I washed. I was in school in the evening to learCn] bible lesson.     Sunday 26.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon.     Ellington, Sunday, Jan. 26, 1862.  I was at Mifs Booth's in the evening. It was clear all day.     Monday 27.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day. I took a lesson in music today.     Tuesday 28.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I went out of school at half past three o'clock and Mr Hall had gone to Rockville so I went in the house to see Mrs. Simonds and I gave her some tea and she took it to the kitchen and we had a cup of tea and a lunch in the dinning room and she gave me some milk and after supper I had some milk and crackers in my room. The boys went skating after school but I did not go. I weigh 140 lb. at the present time.
Ellington, Wednesday, Jan 29, 1862.  I was in school all day. Clowdy and rain part of the day. We ware skating on the crust of the snow we could go all over the fields. In the evening we did not have any society but Mr. Hall made all the boys that went skating go to the stove and dry their feet.     Thursday 30.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day but did not thaw. We went to bed at half past eight oclock.     Friday 31.  I was in school all day. After school we went skating on the crust of the snow in the fields. In the evening all the boys had permission to go to hear a lecture on Washington by the Rev. Clape of Rockville in the conference room and we did not get back till near ten o'clock.     Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 1, 1862.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon we had a ride on a sleigh around the mountain square. After that I went to my room and studied till evening. I was in school in the evening and had bible lesson to learn. It snowed part of the day.     Sunday 2.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school after church till tea time. I was at Mifs Booth's all evening. The sun out all day.     Monday 3.  I was in school till half past three o'clock then I went to practice but on my way up to Mifs Booth's Wm Ashly came on behind me with a horse and sleigh and he asked me to go with him to Rockville and I went with him and we stoped at the exchange
Ellington, Monday, Feb 3, 1862.  and he treated to the ale. I got some crackers at the bakers. We came back by five o'clock. I went without permission. Mr. Hall went to Hartford today and after dinner the boys went in the setting room and raised cain and Mary Simonds put some of the chairs on top of each other and when Mrs. Simonds came in the room she told the boys that she told Mr. Wilson and he told the boys to gow out of the room but Gardner would not go so Wilson pushed him out and took him to his room and punished him with a ruler on the hand and he is eighteen years old. I did not go out for I did not do anything and he did not do anything to me. When he found that Mary Simond's did it he appoligised to the boys. The sun was out all day.     Ellington, Tuesday, Feb. 4, 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening. I did not study much today for I was unwell. It snowed part of the day.     Wednesday 5.  I was in school till half past eleven then the whole school walked from the school house to the grave-yard in a procession before the hearse. It was young man that went to school here and is a relation of Mr Hall's. We did not gethome till half past twelve. I did not get my dinner tillone oclock for my nose was bleeding so that I could not go in. I went in singing school when they ware half through. In the evening I was in society. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 6.  I was in school till three o'clock. Mr. Hall got a sleigh and four horses at Rockville
Ellington, Thursday, Feb 6, 1862.  to take us the whole of us out sleighing. We started at three oclock and the town scholars had teams of their own. It was snowing when we started and snowed all the time we ware gone. We went to Vernon and Dobsonville and from there to Rockville. The distance was over twenty miles. Mr. Hall had a supper prepared for us at Rockville at the hotel. We did not leave till after seven and we ware singing the whole road home.     Friday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clear all day.     Saturday 8.  I was in school in the forncoon. In the afternoon I was in the small resitatior rocom writing from one tco five oclock after supper I washed all over. I was in school in the evening to study bible lesson. The boys went off to Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 8, 1862. slide down hills all afternoon. Clear all day.     Sunday 9.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school after church till tea time. In the evening I was in my room writing. The sun was out all day.     Monday 10.  I was in school all day and in the evening. After tea we all went to slide down hill at the grave yard and stayed till seven. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I wenEt] to slide after school and stayed until tea time. The sun was out all day and the snow thawed some. It was snowing when I went to bed.
Ellington, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 1862.  I was in school all day and in society in the evening. It commenced tco snow in the morning and continued till noon the sun came out and it was very warm.     Thursday 13.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It commenced to snow in the morning and continued till noon then the sun came out very warm.     Friday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It rained part of the fornoon and the sun was out in the afternoon.     Saturday 15.  I was in school in the fornoon and was in Willsons room studying my frees for the middle of the term. In the afternoon I was in the school room writing. It snowed near all day. I was in school in the evening
Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 15, 1862.  to study bible lesson. I was writing in the evening.     Sunday 16.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon to recite barns notes. I was writing letters in the evening.     Monday 17.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clowdy all day and rained in the evening.     Tuesday 18.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Raining in the morning but cleared off by noon and the sun came out.     Wednesday 19.  I was in school all day and in society
Ellington, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 1862. in the evening.     Thursday 20.  I was in school all day and in the evening. After school in the afternoon L. King and myself went to walk. The sun was out all day.     Friday 21.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clear all day.     Saturday 22.  I was in school in the fornoon and we did not do any thing but speak our peaces for the middle of the term. In the afternoon I did not do much of anything. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson. The sun was out all day.     Sunday 23.  I was in school in the morning to recite     Ellington, Sunday, Feb. 23, 1862.  bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoion. I was in school in the afternoon. The sun was out all day and thawed very much. I went to meeting in the evening.     Monday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. About half past eight o'clock the small resitaticon room caught on fire. The cause of the fire was that the stove was too close to the wall and it set the paper on fire and burnt a side of the chimney up through the roof and the boys got a ladder and got on the roof and put it Out. Gardner was the first one that seen the fire. Clowdy all day.     Tuesday 25.  In the fornoon Mr Hall herd us rehurse our peaces till reases. In the afternoon
Ellington, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 1862. after reases some of the boys spoke and their was some ladies there and Mr Fesenden was their. In the evening about twenty of us spoke and I broke down so I went to my seat and after some of the other boys had spoken Mr Hall made me try it again. There were about sixty ladies and gentlemen there. Very cold and windy.     Wednesday 26.  I was in school till three oclock then all the boys went skating on Hydes lot and we stayed till five oclock. There was about twenty ladies on the ice skating and about fifty boys. In the evening I was in society. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 27.  I was in school till eleven oclock       Ellington, Thursday, Feb 27, 1862.  then all the boys that wanted to go in the house could and those that to stay out in the school house could. Mr Hall had a meeting in the setting room from eleven to twelve to pray for colleges and schools. We ware in school from one to two oclock then we all had to go to church and it was held in the conference room and Morris spoke went off the subject so Mr Brockway called him to order but he did not lisen to him and had a great time.     Friday 28.  I was in school all day and in the evening. At two oclock I went to preparitory lecture. The sun was out all day.     Saturday, March 1, 1862.  I was in school all forenoon in the afternoon all the boys went skating
Ellington, Saturday, Mar. 1, 1862.  in the afternoon and Mr Hyde sent us home at half past two but when we got home some of the boys asked Mr Hall if we could not go back again and he sed we might stay till half past four so we went back and I skated with Jane Thompson and Ellen Hyde. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson. The sun was out all day but it was very windy.     Sunday 2.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. In the afternoon the Lords supper was held. I was in school after church till tea time. The sun was out all day.     Monday 3.  I was in school all day and in the     Ellington, Monday, Mar. 3, 1862.  evening. 1.0. King was sent to bed on sunday night and was their all day. The sun was out all day. After school in the afternoon we all went skating on Mr Hydes lot and their was a lot of ladies their it commenced to rain as we left.     Tuesday 4.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clowdy in the fornoon in the afternoon it cleared off cold.     Wednesday 5.  I was in school all day. In the evening all the boys went to hear a lecture on working and shirking by Doc. Holland of Springfield and we payed fifteen cents admition. The lecture commenced at half past seven and let out at nine. The lecture was in
EllIington, Wednesday, Mar 5, 1862.  the church and it was full. Doc: Holland is the author of the letters to young ladies and gentleman. He delivered the same subject in Washington the week before. Clear all day.     Thursday 6.  I studyd from seven to eight the the boys went to Mr Hall to let us go down on the marsh so he told us we might go till ten o'clock so all the boys went down on the march but we were not there ling before the ladies came so I went with Anna Gunn and we skated some time then we started to go around the pond but the ice was not strong enough for both of us so it brok and we both went into the water up to our knees and the ice broke whare ever we went so that had to leave her get out her self and when     Ellington, Thursday, Mar 6 1862.  she could skate we went and sit down on the fence till she got rested then I took her home and climing fences she tore her dress and I my pants by the time we arrived home her dress was as stiff as a board. It was all over town that we brokEe3 through the ice before night. We went in school at half past ten and had school till five to make up lost time. I was in school in the evening. Clear and cold. The fields are all ice.     Friday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I was studing from four to five and reading from half past five to seven I was reading mylesson. The sun was out all day and thawed but the skating is splendid.
Ellington, Saturday, Mar. 8 1862.  After breakfast we all went down on a pond back of Brockways house till eight o'clock to skate. I was in school all fornooon in the afternoon I stayed around the house but some of the boys went skating. I was in school in the evening to study bible lesson. The sun was out all day very warm.     Sunday 9.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church in the morning and afternoon. I was in schol at noon to read bible and in the afternoon till tea time to recite barns notes. In the evening I went to sunday school concert. The sun was out all day.     Monday 10.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clowdy and rain all day.     Ellington, Monday, Mar. 10, 1862.  Their was skating in the fornoon.     Tuesday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Mr Hall went away in the afternoon and the boys raised cain all night and Mr Willson wipped T. Covel for making a noise. The sun out all day.     Wednesday 12.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society and Mr Will son took Mr HallI's pl ace and when we ware through he gave a description of College life. After school I went around the mountain square. The sun was out all day. Mr. Hall was not home to night so Mr Willson slept in his room. I stayed up till eleven oclock writing letters.
Ellington, Thur., Mar. 13, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day and warm.     Saturday 15.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed in my room and sit at the fire and put my feet at the stove to burn the cold that I had in my head and Wheeler stayed with me all afternoon. I was in school in the evening. It rained in the fornoon in the afternoon it hailed and in the  evening it commenced to snow.     Sunday 16.  I was in school in the morning. I was at church morning and afternoon. I was     Ellington, Sunday, Mar. 16, 1862.  in school in the afternoon. In the evening Warner and myself went to call on Mifs Booth. Snowing all day.     Monday 17.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It snowed all day.     Tuesday 18.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 19.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society. After tea Hoghton and myself run all over the marsh.     Thursday 20.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and the sleighing is splendid.     Friday 21.  I was in school all day and in the
Ellington, Friday, Mar. 21, 1862.  evening. Clowdy all day.     Saturday 22.  I was in school in the fornoon to learn my peace for the examination. I was around the house all day. I was in school in the evening to learn a bible lesson. Snowed all day.     Sunday 23.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson.I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon till tea time. I was in the house all evening. Snowed and rained all day.     Monday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I had to stay after school for missing my spelling lesson the first time for one year. The sun out all day.     Ellington, Tuesday, Mar, 25, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 26.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 27.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Friday 28.  I was in school day. In the evening we all went down to the lecture room to hear Mr Fessenden deliver a lecture on corn to the society. After I come home I read in bed till twelve oclock.     Saturday 29.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was reading. I was in
Ellington, Saturday, Mar. 29, 1862.  school in the evening to learn bible lesson. out all day.  The sun was     Sunday Monday 30.  I was in school in the morning recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. The sun was out all day.     Monday 31.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Snow squals all day.     Tuesday, Apr. 1, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening. all day.  The sun was out     Wednesday 2.  I was in school all clay and in the evening I was in society. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 3.  I was in school all day and in the     Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 3, 1862.  evening. The sun was out all day.     Friday 4.  I was in school all day and in the evening. all day.  The sun was out     Saturday 5.  I was in school all day fornoon in the afternoon I was around the house . I was in school in the evening to relearn bible lesson. It rained all day.     Sunday 6.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. The sun was out all day.     Monday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day.
Ellington, Tuesday, Apr. 8, 1862.  I was in school all day and at half past three oclock Mr Hall had Mr Hyde to bring his sisters melodian in the school room and he had the singing teacher to come and Mrs Pattent played the melodian and we had practiced till after four oclock. In the evening Mr Hall invited some of the town people into hear us sing in the evening and the room was full. Mifs Pattent plaid the melodian and Wesson plaid the violin. We went to bed at nine oclock. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 9.  I was in school all day. I was in society in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 10, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Friday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out all day. The sun is not all gone yet.     Saturday 12.  I was in school in the fornoon to speak our pieces for the exhibition. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.     Sunday 13.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. I stayed in the house in the evening. The sun was out all day.
Ellington, Monday, Apr. 14, 1862.  The first day of examination but there was not any person to hear us. In the evening we had our exhibition and the school room was full of strangers. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 15.  The second day of examination and there was strangers in to hear us examined. Some of the boys went home this evening. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 16.  The first day of vacation. The remainder of the boys that were going home left this morning. Mifs Nichols left for home this morning and she cryed before she left. Thomas Lee aked me to take him to the depot and I     Ellington, Wednesday, Apr. 16, 1862.  excepted of his offer and he and Kellogg went after the horse and when he came he had Eh)is cousin Mifs. Clark in the waggon and she went with us to vernon and after the boys left in the train I came back with Mifs Clark and I had a pleasant time comming home. I took dinner at Mr Fessendens and staid till after two oclock then I came home. In the evening I stayed in the house and read. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 17.  I was around the house all day. About five oclock Elli Warner, T. Covel, J. Gay D. Young, Mrs. Simonds and myself went to Endfield and W. Ashly took us up in his fathers two horse waggon. We started after five and arrived in
Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 17, 1862.  Endfield about seven oclock we took Mrs. Simonds to Spaldings then we went to the town hall. The concert commenced at seven and was out at ten. We did not leave till half past ten and Ashly did not know the road so we went one mile beyond the road so he had to turn and go back and when we got into the wright road before we went a mile we got on a wrong road again so we had to turn again. The stars) were out but it was dark. Covel and Delanson went to sleep on the floor of the waggon. We were singing near all the road home. We got in the house by one o'clock and we went to bed as soon as we came in the house. The sun was out all day.     Ellington, Friday, Apr. 18, 1862.  I did not get up till half past seven oclock. I went to church at ten oclock and in the afterncoon at half past two. Today was fast day for the state. In the evening Warner and myself went to call on Mifs Booth and we did not get back till after prayers. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 19.  About seven oclock Gay, Felix, Delanson and myself went to Rockville and we walked. We had our hair cut then we started to come home and we arrived by noon and I was tired by the time I got home. In the afternoon I read and wrote. The sun was out al1 day.     Sunday 20.  We did not learn a bible lesson to
Ellington, Sunday, Apr. 20, 1862.  day but we went to church morning and afternoon and the minister from Summers preached. After church I sleept till tea time. In the evening Warner and myself went to my room and had something to drink then we went to Mifs Booths and spent the evening. Clowdy but not rain     Monday 21.  In the forenoon Gay, Felix, Delanson and myself started for Rockville about seven oclock and     Monday 21.  It rained all day and I stayed around the house.     Tuesday 22.  It rained all fornoon in the afternoon I slept part of the time. In the evening     Ellington, Tuesday, Apr. 22, 1862.  I went down to the church to singing school.     Wednesday 23.  In the fornoon Warner and myself went to Rockville to get pants for Warner then we went to the barbers. Comming home Warner went to the houses to get money for sick soldiers but he only got fifty cts. I We got home by noon. In the afternoon I stayed around the house. In the evening I went down to singing school.     Thursday 24.  In the morning about eight oclock Mr Hall and Mary Simonds and Sophia Hall went to Enfield in a two horse carriage that Mr Hall hired at Rockville, Mrs Simonds
Ellington, Thursday, April 24, 1862.  went to Enfield the evening before. Mr Hall and Mrs. Simonds were married at ten oclock at Enfield by the minister there and they came back by five oclock and they went to bed by half past nine o'clock. I stayed around the  house all forncon and read. In the afternoon I went down to the church to have my voice tryed and to sing some I stayed till four o'clock. In the evening I went to singing school down at the church and did not get back till ten. It snowed a short time in the morning, and it was very cold all day.     Friday 25.  In the fornoon I sawed wood. In the afternoon I did some reading. In the evening I went to singing school and did not get back till ten oclock.     Ellington, Saturday, Apr. 26, 1862.  In the fornoon I was reading. In the afternoon Warner, Covel and myself went to Rockville to do some business for Mr Hall and we had his horse and buggy and we did not get back till tea time. In the evening Warner and myself stayed in the setting room. The sun was out all day.     Sunday 27.  We got up at seven oclock. I was at church morning and afternoon and went to meeting in the conference room at half past five. We had to learn the first psalm to recite to-day. After sun down Warner and myself went to see Mifs. Booth and from there we went to see Mr. Arther Hyde and Warner did not give me
Ellington, Sunday, Apr. 27, 1862.  an introduction to Mifs Mary Hyde but she spoke to me. The sun was out all day. I read in bed after prayers till twelve oclock.     Monday 28.  Felix started for Boston this morning and Warner for Middletown. Mr Hall asked me to go to Enfield to bring Mifs. Sarah Simonds home so I excepted and I started about nine oclock and I had Mr Hall's horse and a spring wagon with two seats and Mary Simonds and Sophia Hall went along and we got there about half past ten. I went in the house and had an introduction to Mifs Simonds we stayed at Spaldings a half hour then we started for home and on the road I had quite a pleasant chat     Ellington, Monday, Apr. 28, 1862.  with Mifs. Simonds. We reached home by two oclock then we had dinner and after dinner I went to reading and read till four oclock. I went to singing school in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 29.  We had prayers at seven oclock. I was in the school house writing all fornoon and in the afternoon. It rained in showers all day. I went to singing school in the evening.     Wednesday 30.  Gay, Covel, Delanson and myself started for Hartford at seven and arrived at half past nine. I had some photographs taken. We all went to Greens resterant for dinner, and we went to Fishers to get some
Ellington, Wednsday, Apr. 30, 1862.  clothing. We left Hartford at five and got back by eight oclock then we had tea then we went to singing school and I wore my beever when I come home. I did not go to bed till eleven but Mr Hall and wife was not at home they ware at Hartford all night. We had Smiths horse.     Thursday May 1.  I got up at eight oclock. then we had breakfast. I stayed around the house all day. In the evening Mr Hall and wife came home. Our singing class gave an exhibition in the evening in the church but the church was not full. It was clowdy all day and rained in the evening.     Friday 2.  I went to Rockville for Mr Hall and Gay     Ellington, Friday, May 2, 1862.  went with me. We started about six in the morning and I got measured for a pare of pants. When we started for home it rained very hard and I got wet. I stayed around the house the remainder of the day. I stayed in the house all  evening.     Saturday 3.  In the fornoon I was writing in the afternoon I helped Mr Hall to lay carpet in the parlor and reception room and to unpack Mrs. Hall furniture that came from vermont. After tea I went to Rockville after Alfered Hall and Charles Hall came that afternoon. I did not learn a bible lesson to-day. The sun was out all day.     Sunday 4.  I went to church morning and afternoon
Ellington, Sunday, May 4, 1862.  and I went to meeting at half past five. I did not have to learn a bible lesson to-day. I took a nap in the afternoon. The sun was out all day.     Monday 5.  I slept near all afternoon then I went over to Chapman's shop and he gave me some sider. In the evening Gay, Spalding, Covel, Laine, Delanscon and myself went to see Mr Hyde and we plaid gaims and had wallnuts for refreshments. We did not leave till half past eleven oclock. We had a splendid time. It commenced to rain about eleven at noon it thundered it continued to rain all day but cleared off in the evening.     Tuesday 6.  In the fornoon I helped Mrs. Hall to lay     Ellington, Tuesday, May 6, 1362.  carpet on the front stairs. In the evening some of the boys came home. I rained part of the day.     Wednesday 7.  The first day of a school and their was twelve boys in school too day. In the evening most all the boys came. The sun was out all day. We went to bed at nine oclock.     Thursday 8.  The second day of school. The boys ware near all here. Eby came from Hartford with his father in a carriage and they arrived here about ten oclock and I went out of school and stayed out till his father left town. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall had a bed put in my room for Eby.
Ellington, Friday, May 9, 1362.  The third day of school and I did not recite and thing but Algibra. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 10.  I was in school in the fornoon and hard to speak a peace. In the afternoon Eby and myself hired Chapmans horse and carriage to go to- Rockville and we started about two oclock and we stoped at the Ellington mill and Thayer went with us through the mill from there we went to Rockville and Eby had his hair cult and we bought some crackers and lemons. I got a pair of pants. We arrived home just as the tea bell rung. After tea I washed. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson. After it got dark we got Chapmans boy to bring the crackers 8 lb. and the lemons     Ellington, Saturday, May 10, 1862.  into the gymnacium and when we came out of school we took them to our room. The sun was out all day but it was very windy.     Sunday 11.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was at church in the fornoon after dinner we had to go in school to read the bible after that we went to church. At half past three we went in school to learn and recite a lesson in barns notes. After tea I went to sunday school concert in the church after that we went in school to return our libraries. After sun down Eby, Warner and myself took a walk up past the high school and two of the girls were at the window and we waved our handkerchiefs and they did.
Ellington, Sunday, May 11, 1862.  the same then we went to Chafy's and bought some milk to drink. After prayers Eby, Delanson and myself made some lemonade. The sun was out all day.     Monday 12.  I was in school in the fornoon and in the afternoon.     Tuesday 13.  I was in school all day and I was working on my flower bed. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 14.  I was in school all day and the sun was out all day.     Thursday 15.  I was in school all day and the sun was very warm. Eby and myself had our milk in the evening. We went to bed at half past eight.     Ellington, Friday, May 16, 1862.  I was in school all day. I got up at four oclock this morning to write a letter. It was so warm that I had my coat and vest off in school. When I went to bed I found some spruce in my bed.     Saturday 17.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed around the house. I was in school in the evening to study bible lesson.       Sunday 18.  I was in school in the morning to recit bible lesson. I went to church morning and afternoon. I had to go in school at noon to read bible lesson. In the afternoon we had to go in school to learn barns notes. I stayed in the sitting room after tea till
Ellington, Sunday, May 18, 1862.  meeting was out. After sun down Eby and myself went walking. The sun was out all day.     Monday 19.  I was in school all day. After tea Eby and myself went around the mountain square and we stoped on the road to see Mrs Pease and she gave use some flowers. It was very cold in the evening and rained in showers all day.     Tuesday 20.  I was in school all day. In the evening Eby and myself took a walk. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 21.  I was in school all day and it was clowdy part of the day and cold in the fornoon so that we had fire in the Ellington, Wednesday, May 21, 1862.  school room. In the evening Eby and myself went walking. I was reading in my room in the evening.     Thursday 22.  I was in school all day. Eby's box came this morning and it was broke) open we took the things out of the box at noon and put them in my chest the floor was covered all over shuger. In the evening I played foot ball. The sun was out all day.     Friday 23.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 24.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby and myself stayed in our room all afternoon
Ellington, Saturday, May 24, 1962  and we ware talking to Sarah Simonds from our window to her in her room and Eby played cards with her through the windows and when it was Eby's deal she throwed the cards in our room by putting them in her handkerchief. She came to our room and we gave her a drink of brandy and we was at the window all afternoon. I was in school all evening to learn bible lesson after school we went over to Chafys and drank a quart of milk. The sun was out all day.     Sunday 25.  I was in school in the morning tc recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon and evening I went walking after sun dcown.     Ellington, Sunday, May 25, 1862.  Warner and myself sat in old hundred's slip to--day. In the evening Eby and myself was in our room eating cheas crackers and tung. The sun was out all day.     Monday 26.  I was in school all day. Walking in the evening.     Tuesday 27.  I was in school all day. and part raining. The sun was out all day. I went  The sun was out part of the day     Wednesday 28.  I was in school all day.     Thursday 29.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.
Ellington, Friday 30 May  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the evening I went walking.     Saturday 31.  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day. After dinner Eby and myself hired Chapman's horse and buggy and went up around snipsic lake to Rockville and when we got to the lake we found Delanson, Olmsted, Hudson and Lee in swimming. We stayed at Rickville about an hour and we got home about five oclock. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.     Sunday June 1.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church     Ellington, Sunday, June 1, 1862.  morning and afternoon. In the afternoon I was in school to recite barns notes. I was reading all evening. It rained all day in showers.     Monday 2.  I was in school all day. The sun was out and it was very warm.     Tuesday 3.  I was in school all day. It rained all day.     Wednesday 4.  I was in Eschool) all day. It rained all day. I went to bed at half past eight.     Thursday 5.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.
Ellington, Friday, June 6, 1862  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. After tea Eby and myself went to walk down town and when we got to Ashleys store we saw Sarah Simonds and Sarah Spalding comin up street and they) waved their handkerchiefs and crossed the street on the side that I was on and went to the semetery gate and worked at it as if they could not open it so I opened it for them and we went in with them and came back to the house with them. After Mifs Spalding started for home Eby and myself walked up to the red house and shot mark.     Saturday, 7  I was in school all fornoon. The sun was out all day.     Ellington Sunday, June 8, 1862  I was in school in the fornoon to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. It rained till four oclock then it cleared off.     Monday 9.  I was in school all day. In the evening I went to walk and Eby and myself bought a pineapple at the post-office. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 10.  I was in school all day. The sun was out al1 day.     Wednesday 11.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. After tea Eby and myself walked around the mountain square. In the evening we eat a pineapple.
Ellington, Thursday, June 12, 1862.  I was in school all day and it was very warm. In the evening i went to Mifs Booth's and we went to see Mifs Griswold and they played on the piano and we sung together. I did not start for home till nine oclock when I got to the house the boys had gone to bed and the lite was out in the setting room and Mr Hall was in his bed room. The front door was locked but the window in the entry under the ? was ? so I opened it and when I got in the entry I took my boots off and when I went to my room the matches was hid and water in the box. Mr Hall did not say any thing to me for not being at prayers     Ellington, Thursday, June 12, 1862.  and coming in so late or he did not know that I was out.     Friday 13.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall and wife went to Enfield and did not get back till six oclock in the evening. Eby and Sarah Simonds went in the parlor after dinner to play card and Hudson went to the door and caught him on the sofa with his arm around her. After tea Eby, Olmsted, Delanson and myself asked to walk around the mountain square and we went to the mill pond to swim and we got some straw berries and we saw large frogs. We got back by eight o' clock then I went up to Mifs Booth's
Ellington, Friday, June 13, 1862.  and she gave me some ice cream then I got Ben to get me a quart of milk at Chafy's and he took it to my room and after Mr Hall took the lites down stairs we had peaches and milk. After prayers Mr Hall made all the boys stop in the sitting that was throwing water the night before then he made them get their pitchers and pails and he put them away till the end of the term and their is only four boys that have water in their rooms the rest of the boys have to go to the seller to wash in the morning.     Saturday 14.  I was in school all fornoon. After dinner Eby, Olmsted, Field, Delanson and myself started for frogs. When we got to the post-office Eby and  Ellington, Saturday, June 14, 1862  myself went in and had some beer from their we went to the mill pond up on the mountain. Just before we got their we sent Delanson and Olmsted in a house to buy some pies but they would not sell any so we went to the spring and got a drink and we asked at the house near the mill for pies and  we baught two rhubarb pies and we took the pies and plates to the pond and eat them then we caught all the frogs we could then we went in swiming and caught some more then we ate all the strawberries we wanted and each of us braught a bunch home I gave mine to: Mrs. Hall and Tucker. We caught  fourty frogs.
Ellington, Tuesday, June 17, 1862.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the afternoon after school Tucker and myself walked to Rockville and we had some beer ice cream and orangs when we got home had a cup of tea then we went to Felix room and Eby, Porter, Salding, Bristol and myself had lemonade to drink. I had a  brother born today.     Wednesday 18  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall went to New York to-day. After tea Warner and myself went walking after we came back we had something to drink. I stayed up till eleven oclock writing.     Thursday 19.  I was in school all day the sun was     Ellington, Thursday, June 19, 1862.  out all day. After tea I went with Sarah Simonds around to the boys to take the boys washing to their room.     Friday 20.     I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Felix had a stick in his desk and cne of the boys put it on the floor and Fell ix picked it up and Tucker told him tco bring it to him and he told him he would not sco Tucker told him to      leave the room and he sed he would so Tucker told him he  should not leave till he brought the stick to him but Felix left the room and went to his room and stayed till evening then Mr Hall Had a talk with him and he had to ask pardon of
Ellington, Friday, June 20, 1862.  Mr. Tucker.     Saturday 21.  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon Mr. Tucker, Eby, Delanson and myself walked to Rockville. While Eby and Delanson) ware getting their hair cut Tucker and myself went and got some lager-beer then I got meshered for a pare of shoes then we all had a glass of beer. We came home in time for tea. I was in school in the evening.  Sunday 22.  I was in school in the morning and in Church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon till tea time. After dinner Olmstead brought four tumblers of strawberries in out room and we got suger and cake so we had a nice time. I was writing in the     Ellington, Sunday June 22, 1862.  even ing.     Monday 23.  I was in school all day. After tea Eby and myself went to martins and bought a quart cof strawberries and we went in the house and they set the table and we had shugar and cream with them and we eat all of them after that we went to Mifs Booth's and while we was their Jane Thompson and Anna Gunn came in and I got Jane to play the piano when they left EI went with them to Thompsons when we got their the prayer bell rang so we left. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 24.  I was in school all day. At noon I went to Martins and got him
Ellington, Tuesday, June 24, 1862.  to take a quart of strawberries to Mirfs Booth and she had two quarts and she made a strawberry shortcake and Eby, Delanson and myself had an invitation to take tea their. We went to tea at home then we went to Mifs Booths and we had cake, meat, strawberries and cream and strawberry short cake after tea Eby and Mifs Booth played a game of checkers then I played a game of backgamon with her then we left.     Wednesday 25.  I was in school all day. It rained all day. I was studying in the evening.     Thursday 26.  I was in school all day. It rained in showers all day.     Ellington, Friday, June 27, 1862.  I was in school all1 day. The sun was out all day.        Saturday 28.  I was in school all fornoon, in the afternoon I stayed around the house. When the boys went swimming I went walking with Sarah Simonds and we called on Jane Thompson. I was school in the evening.     Sunday 29.  I was in school in the morning. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. It was clowdy all day but it did not rain.     Monday 30.  I was not in school in the fornoon.
Ellington, Monday, June 30, 1862  but I went in after one oclock.     Tuesday July 1.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Tucker, Houghton and myself walked to Rockville after school.     Wednesday 2.  I was in school all day and it rained all day in the evening I was reading.     Thursday 3.  I was in school all day. It rained part of the day and part the sun was out. At four oclock Eby, Tucker, Del an son and myself with some of the other went to vernon in Thompson's waggon and from their we went to Hartford in the cares and we had to stand the whole time. We arrived at Hartford     Hartford, Thursday, July 3, 1862.  at six oclock. We went to the Allen house and got a room then we had supper after that we went to the Allen hall to see the American Cousin played. We went to bed at twelve clock.     Friday 4  I arose at six oclock and had breakfast shortly after. At eight oclock Eby and myself went up on Main st. to see the sunday-school procession and their was three thousand children in the procession. We met near all the boys there. Then Delanson and myself went to Prescot and Gages and had our photographs taken and while we was there the fireman's parade commenced but it was not much and before we left Precots I
Hartford, Friday July 4, 1862.  saw Sarah Simonds and Sarah Spalding on the street and they came up in the photographic gallery and we talked some time then I asked them to have some ice cream and they excepted so we went to the south maids and had ice cream from there went to the Allen house and I found Eby and we stayed in the  parlor and the girles played on the piano. About eleven oclock we left the hotel and went with the girles to the store and then to the place whare they stoped then we went to the Allen house and had our dinner and when we came from dinner Hayden was wating for us in the reading room and we went down to the park to see the balloons go off. They went up at three oclock and was in sight three     Hartford, Friday July 4, 1862.  quarters of an hour and they came down nineteen miles from Hartford. Their was three balloons. After supper Eby and myself went down to the park to see the fire-work's and when it was half over we met Sarah Simonds and Sarah Spalding and after the fire work's we walked to the bridge and we set  down till the crowd was out then we went to the theatre to see the American cousin played and the girls was afraid that they would be found out. It was out at twelve oclock then we went with the girles to the place whare they stayed and we tryed to open the door but could not get it open so we knocked but no one came to the door so we took the girls with us to the Allen House
Hartford, Friday July 4, 1862.  and we got a room for them till morning. The number of the room is 53. We did not get to the Allen House till after one oclock.After the girles retired we went and got some ale then we went to bed. The sun was out all day and it was very warm.     Saturday 5.  We rose at six oclock and had breakfast at seven then we went to the depot and on the road we met John Spalding and we went to the depot and the girles was their but Sarah Simonds missed the cars so she went with Sarah Spalding to Enfield at half past nine. They left the Allen house at half past seven and went to the house ware they stoped and they had left the gas burn all night     Hartford, Saturday, July 5, 1862.  and the door unlocked but we did not know it. After the girles had gone we went and got what clocks we wanted. We had dinner at one oclock. We went to the depot after two. We left Hartford at three oclock but before we got a quarter of a mile from the depot the engine and baggage car run off the track and we had to wate two hours before we started. We arrived at Vernon at six and their was four stage ? for Rockville. We arrived at Ellington at nine oclock. The sun was out all day but their was one hour about three oclock.     Sunday 6  I was in school in the fornoon to recite bible lesson. I was in church
Ellington, Sunday July 6, 1862.  morning and afternoon. The thermometer was up to 95 deg. In the evening I was over at Mifs Booths.     Monday 7.  I was in school all day.     Tuesday 8.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 9.  I was in school all day. It rained in showers all day.     Thursday 10.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Friday 11.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Eby's cousin came to day but left in the evening.     Ellington, Saturday, July 12th, 1862.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was reading. I was in school in the evening. The sun was out all day.     Sunday 13.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. The sun was out all day.     Monday 14.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 15.  I was in school all day. The sun was out till five oclock then it showered till eight.     Wednesday 16.  I was in school all day. The sun was
Ellington, Wednesday July 16th, 1862  out all day. After tea Mr Tucker and myself went to see Mr Hyde and he invited us to eat cherrys and we excepted and we was on the tree about half an hour.     Thursday 17.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Friday 18.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 19.  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I was at Mifs Booths, I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 20.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in     Ellington Sunday, July 20th, 1862.  school after church morning and afternoon and also after tea. I was over at Mifs Booths in the evening and I missed prayers.     Monday 21st.  I was in school all day. It rained all day.     Tuesday 22.  I was in school all day. It rained in the night.     Wednesday 23.  I was in school all day. It was clowdy all day and very cold. I had my winter cloths on and had fire in the sitting rocm0     Thursday 24.  I was in school all day. It rained part of the day and part the sun was out.
Ellington, Friday, July 25, 1862  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 26.  I was in school in the fornoon to learn my peace for examination in the afternoon. I stayed around the house. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.     Sunday 27.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school after church.     Monday 29.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 29.  I was in school all day. It rained in the afternoon.     Ellington Wednesday July 30  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. At five oclock Eby and myself started for Rockville and Eby had his hair cut then we went to the turner Hall and got some lager beer and from there to the confectionary and had a glass of ale. We got to Ellington about seven oclock. Then we went to the post office and had some porter. Thompson and Malen Clark had a fight and Thompson had clark on the floor and choked and cut his face and eye.     Thursday 31.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall went to Hartford to-day.
Ellington, Friday Aug 1, 1862  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 2.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Olmsted, Delanson and myself went up to the sawmill after dinner to get thwortle berries. When we got to the mill we met a boy going after berries so we went along with him and we got about four quarts. Then we went in swiming in the mill pond. We did not get home till half past five. I was in school in the evening.        Sunday 3.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon till tea time. I went to meeting after tea. After prayers and     Ellington Sunday, Aug 3, 1862.  Mr Hall had taken the light down stairs Olmsted came in my room and we had a quart of milk, shugar and thwortle berries to eat. The sun was out all day.     Monday 4.  I was in school all day. The sun was very warm. After tea I went with Mifs Booth to McNites up past Slates mill and we did not get back till half past nine and Mr Hall did not say any thing to me for missing prayers. My shirt was all wet and my shoes was wet from the dew of the grass. I had a splendid time. The sun was out all day and it was very warm.     Tuesday 5.  I was in school all day. It was very warm in the school room. The boys
Ellington Tuesday Aug 5, 1862  all had their coats off. After tea     Thursday 7  I went up to Mifs Booths and she gave me some ice cream then Eby, Mifs Simonds, Mifs Booth and myself walked up to see the reservoir and we did not get back till dusk.     Wednesday 6  I was in school all day. The sun was very warm.     Friday 3.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and it was very warm.     Saturday 9.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby, Olmsted, Delanson and myself went up to the pond and we picked a basket of black-berries     Ellington, Saturday Aug 9th, 1862  then we went in swimming. We did not get back till after the boys had tea but we had ours. It rained very hard after we came back. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 10.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon till tea time. I went to Sunday school concert after tea. In the evening Eby and myself went walking. It was very warm.     Monday 11th.  The first day of examination and their was strangers in to hear
Ellington, Monday Aug 11th 1862  us. It was a very warm day. In the evening I went with Mifs Booth to see Mifs Dunnem the lady that Mr Hall promised to marrie but did not and I did not get home till after prayers.     Tuesday 12th.  The second day of examination. Bodsworth, Kings and Felix left this morning. IN the fornoon B. Willson and some ladies was in to hear us. In the evening Warner and myself went to call on Mr Hyde and we stayed till after nine oclock and coming up street we met N. Lindley and Elmer so we went up to school and Newt and myself went up and made a call on Mifs Booth     Ellington, Tuesday, Aug 12th 1862  and we stayed till half past eleven. When we came home the door was locked so we went to the window and went in and Mr Hall was in the kitchen and he was very cross. This evening while I was out the boy were throwing apples in the halls and Mr Hall went to our room and Eby threw an apple at his head but he thought it was one of the boy and he had a fuss with him. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 13th  I left Ellington in the morning for Hartford and we stayed there till three oclock then we left on the boat and arrived at New York the next morning
New York, Thursday Aug 14th  I was in New York all day and we stoped at the St. Nicholas Hotel. In the evening S Hubley, Mifs Dougherty, Sue Redsecker, Sam, Felix, Aunt and Uncle Felix and myself went to Nibloes garden. In the afternoon we went in Barnum's  museum. I went to bed about eleven. The sun was out all day.     Friday 15th  We left New York.:: at seven for Saratoga. We had to stop at Troy from one oclock till five for the trane. We was going on the boat up the hudson but the boat was broken so we went up the Hudson on the cars. We arrived at Saratoga about seven oclock and we went     Saratoga, Friday, Aug 15th 1862  to a private house and Aunt Sarah did not like it and I started off and got rooms at Congress Hall but we had to take rooms two squares from the hotel and dine at Congress Hall and we had to pay three dollars a day. The sun was out all day. We stayed in the house all evening.     Saturday 16th  In the morning we all went to breakfast at eight oclock then we went to the Congress Springs and the Empire springs and we went to the high rock spring. In the afternoon we went to see the Indians and aunt Sue bought Delanson and myself a cane. IN the evening we left Congress
Saratoga Saturday Aug 16th  Hall and boarded ware we roomed in the evening Sue, Mifs Dougherty Aunt Felix and myself went up to Congress Hall and Sue and myself went up to the United States Hotel and went to the ball room to see them dance. We came back about eleven oclock. The sun was out all day.        *     Sunday 17th  I got up at seven oclock and went to the spring and got a drink then I took a walk and came back and had breakfast. I stayed in the house all day. In the evening I went to church. The sun was out all day.     Niagara Monday, Aug 18th 1862.  I left Saratoga in the morning about seven oclock for Niagara and we had to stop a Utica on hour and a half. We had dinner at the depot and I walked around the town. We left at half past one and arrived at Niagara at eleven  oclock. We stopped at the cataract House. The sun was out all day. I was in the cars all day.     Tuesday 19th  I arose at seven and Delanson and myself went to the fall and we was the first of our party to see them. We had breakfast at seven oclock
Niagara Tuesday Aug 19th 1862  After breakfast we all went down to the falls and coming back we stoped in an Indian store and we bought some things. From there we went on Goat Island and first to the fall's on the Island and from there to the cave of the winds and from there we went to the tower and from there we went around the  Island and then we went and had our dinner about three oclock. After dinner we got carriages and crossed the suspension bridge and went into Canida and we went to the museum and we went under table rock     Niagara Tuesday Aug 19th 1862  and under horse shoe fall's on the Canida side and I got all wet and Sue and A. Dougherty were the only ladies that went with us under the falls. We had to pay three dollars and a half tole to cross the bridge. Their was ten in our party. The steps that go down to the water on the American side are 291 in nomber. The suspension bridge is 800 feet long and 260 feet from the surfice of the water and the water is 250 feet deep from the bridge to the falls. The company consisted of Mrs Hubley, Mifs Redsecker and Dougerty,
Niagara Tuesday 19th 1862  Mr Felix & Wife & Son, Delanson, S. Dougherty, Geo. Griffen and a gentleman from Buffalo.     Wednesday 20th  We had breakfast at eight. We hired two hacks and the first place we went was the Whirl Pool and we went to the waters edge and their was 250 steps to get down. Then we went to the Devil's hole and the blugeay run. We went down to the Waters edge and I went part way in the cave. On the rock at Devils hole in the year of 1812 their was 250 British soldiers thrown down the precipice by the French and Indians. From there we     Niagara, Wednesday Aug 20th  went to the Hights and opposite is Brocks monument. From there we went three miles in the country to an Indian villaige and then came to the hotel and had our dinner at three oclock. I slept the rest of the afternoon. In the  evening we went to the Indian stores. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 21st  I left Niagara at seven oclock and we arrived at Buffalo about ten oclock and I went around to see the place till two oclock then we had dinner at the American
Buffalo, Thursday Aug 21st 1862  Hotel. After dinner Sue, Ann, Mifs Dougherty, Mr. Wicks, Delanson and myself went up street and we went in the catholic hospital. When we came to the hotel the rest of the crowd had gone to the depot and we had to hurry to meet  the cars. We left Buffalo at six oclock and it commenced to rain as we left. We was in the cars till twelve oclock at night then we stoped at Elmira till four in the morning and we stayed in the depot.     Friday 22.  We left Elmira at four oclock in the morning and we stoped     Middletown Friday Aug 22, 1862.  at Williamsport to change cars and we took breakfast there. We did not get to Harrisburg till two oclock and we left at four for home. I stayed in the house in the evening. The sun was out all day but it rained in the evening.     Saturday 23  I was in the house in the fornoon in the afternoon I took Aunt Sarah ou to the farm and I was out at the farm till dark. It rained in the morning but cleared off by noon.     Sunday 24th  I got up at eight oclock and had breakfast at nine oclock. I went to methodist church in the morning. I went to sunday
Middletown Sunday Aug 24, 1862  school. In the evening I went to Luthern church. The sun was out all day.     Monday 25th  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 26th  I was out at the farm all day picking chips in the woods and father was at Phila. I had the horse at the farm. The sun was out all day. I went up town in the evening with J. Shaffer and we went to Wiesttings then we went and had some ice cream then we went home.        *  Wednesday 27th  I was out at the farm by six oclock and picked apples then I picked     Middletown Wednesday Aug 27  chips the rest of the day. I walked from the farm home. The sun was cut all day.     Thursday 28.  I was out at the farm all day picking chips. The sun was out all day. I stayed home in the evening.     Friday 29th  I was around the office all fornoon. The sun was out all day.     Saturday 30th  I was around the house in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was out at the farm making sider and it rained about three oclock. I came home about dark.
Middletown, Sunday Aug 31st/62  I got up at eight and had breakfast at nine. I went to church in the morning and to sunday school. It rained in the evening.     Monday Sept. 1st.  I stayed around the house all day. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 2st  In the fornoon I helpt Sol. to hall boards. In the afternoon I stayed at the office. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 3th  Their was frost this morning. Father and myself started for Coalbrook about eight oclock to tend a sale and we arrived     Middletown Wed, Sept 3th 1962  there about eleven then looked at the cattle and then went to dinner. The sale begun at one and father bought two cows. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 4th  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day.     Friday 5th  I stayed at the office all day and at three oclock I went uptown with the band to the square to form a home gard and we marched.     Saturday 6th  I was out at the farm in the fornoon and in the afternoon I was home. In the evening I was at the market house to form a company and we organized
Middletown, Sunday Sep. 7, 1862  I went to Elizabethtown on sunday with the two horse carriage and I came home in the evening.     Monday 8  I was around the office all day.     Tuesday 9.  I went to Harrisburg with the horse and waggon and we traded. I was at Harrisburg all day.     Wednesday 10  I was home all day. The sun was out all day.     Thursday 11.  I was out at the farm triming locust trees and Capp came out in the afternoon and I     Middletown Thursday Sep. 11, 1862  came in with him. In the evening I drilled.     Friday 12  I stayed around the office and cleaned fathers pistols. In the evening the cavalry drilled.     Saturday 13.  I went to Harrisburg horse back to trade horses and I took our horse to the groave yard and I took another horse. I came home about two oclock.     Sunday 14th  I went to church in the morning. I took a nap in the afternoon. I stayed at home in the evening.
Middletown Mond, Sept 14th 1862  I was around the house all day. At ten oclock the cavalry company met at the hall and they adjourned till too oclock to start for Harrisburg but they did not get off till three oclock and they had sixty men but the govener did not take them so they came home in the night. Father was captin. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 16th  I was home all day and I stayed at the office.     Wednesday 17.  I was out at the farm thrashing all day in the evening I went to town.     Middletown Thursday Sept 18th 1862  I was around the house in the fornoon. At four oclock I started for Lancaster and I stayed there till friday night.     Friday 19th  I left Lancaster at six in the evening for Columbia and I stayed till Saturday.     Saturday 20th  I left Columbia at noon for home. In the afternoon I worked around home.     Sunday 21st  I stayed home all day. I was not well. The sun was out all day.     Monday 22st  I was out at the farm all
Middletown, Monday Sept 22st 1862  day picking apples and betaters. The sun was out all day.     Tuesday 23th  I was halling boards in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was  getting ready for school. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 24th  I was packing my things for school. I left home at seven oclock and I stayed at Ebys till one oclock in the night then we went to the depot and the train did not leave till after three oclock. The train was detained on the road so  we did not get in New York till twelve the next day.     New York, Thursday 25th 1862  I was on the cars from three in the morning till twelve at noon. It was very cold in the cars and there was frost. We stoped at the Merchants Hotel. In the afternoon Eby, Delanson and myself went to Barnums. In the evening we went to Niblows garden. The sun was out all day.     Friday 26th  In the fornoon I went out shoping. After dinner we started for the boat and we left at four oclock. We did not get in Hartford till the next day at noon on account of the fog. The sun was out all day.
Ellington Saturday Sept. 27, 1862  I was on the boat till noon. I went from the boat tco the depot and I arrived in Ellington about six oclcock.     Sunday 28.  I went to church morning and afternoon. I was n school in the afternoon. In the evening Mr Kapp went away. It rained all day.     Monday 29.  I was in school all day. I was in school in the evening.     Tuesday 30.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday, Oct  I was in school all day     Ellington, Wednesday Oct 1, 1862  Clowdy all day with rain.     Thursday 2.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 3  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday 4.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I went with the boy for apples at Bissels. Eby and myself had a large carpet bag full. When we came back Eby, Kapp and myself went to Rockville with chapmans team and I got meashered for
Ellington Saturday Oct 4th 1862  a pare of pants. We did not get back till after tea. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 5.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson, I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon.     Monday 6.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 8  I was in school all day. In the evening I was in society     Ellington Wed. Oct 8, 1862.  After society Mrs Hall gave me a whiskey punch and I went to bed and tooka swet but it did not do my cold any good.     Thursday 9.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed out on account of a cold. I wrote part and slept part of the time.     Friday 10.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday 11.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I read.In the evening I was in school.
Ellington Sunday, Oct 12, 1862  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in School in the afternoon. I was reading in the evening.     Monday 13  I was in school all day and in the evening it rained all day.     Tuesday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 15.  I got up at four oclock and had breakfast at six. Eby, Kapp, Delanson and myself started for Hartford at six     Ellington, Wednesday Oct 15, 1862  oclock with Smiths horse and waggon. We arrived in Hartford at nine oclock. We got our cloths and after I was through with my business we all went to the horse shoe. We left Hartford at five oclock and arrived in Ellington at eight     Thursday 16.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 17.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday 18.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon we went chestnuting. In the evening I was in school.
Ellington Sunday, Oct 19, 1862.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. In the evening I read.     Monday 20.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 21.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 22.  I was in school all day and I was in society in the evening.     Thursday 23.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Ellington Friday Oct 24th 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday 25.  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I was in my room. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 26  I was in school in the morning. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. I was in my room in the evening writing.     Monday 27.  I was in school all day and in school in the evening.     Tuesday 28.  I was in school all day and in the evening.
Ellington, Wednesday, Oct 29, 1862  I was in school all day in the evening I was in society.     Thursday 30  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 31  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday Nov. 1.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Dimond and myself went to the cider press. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 2  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. In the evening I went to meeting to hear Mr Tucker speak.        Ellington, Monday, Nov 3th 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 4.  I was in school all day and in the evening. After school in the afternoon Hale, Kapp and myself went to the cider press and we got what we could drink and I filled a bottle.     Wednesday 5.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society. I was writing letter after the boys had gone to bed.     Thursday 6.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I was writing after the boy had gone to bed.
Ellington Friday, Nov 7th 186:2.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It snowed all day.     Saturday 8.  The sleighs were out this morning but it commenced to rain about noon and spoilt the sleighing, but it snowed in the night again. I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I stayed around the house. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 9.  I was in school in the morning noon and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was writing in the evening. It rained all fornoon and it changed to snow in the afternoon and it was snowing in the evening.     Ellington, Monday, Nov. 10, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 11th  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 12th  I was in school all day in the evening I was in society and King and myself furnished apples.     Thursday 13th  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 14th  I was in school all day and in the evening.
Ellington, Saturday, Nov 15th 1862  I was not in school today. Gay, Spalding, Houghton and myself were carriers at a funeral at Mr Hydes and it was a little girle from Hartford. The funeral was at ten oclock. In the afternoon Hale and myself went to the cider--press and from there we rode to the grist mill on Mr Pecks waggon. I  was in school in the evening.     Sunday 16th  I was in school in the morning noon and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was writing in the evening. It rained all fornoon and it changed to snow in the afternoon and it was snooing in the evening.     Ellington, Monday, Nov. 17th 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 18th  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 19th  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society.     Thursday 20th  I was in school all day and in the evening. I received $50 this evening from father.     Friday 21st  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday 22  I went to Hartford to get some clothing. I got dinner at the Allyn House. I came back in the evening. I was in school in the evening.
Ellington, Sunday, Nov 23, 1862  I was in school in the morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. I went to: meeting in the evening.     Monday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Kapp was sent in the house to day.     Tuesday 25  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 26  I was in school all day. In the evening we did not have any society.     Thursday 27. Thanksgiving  I was reading in all morning till eleven o'clock then we all went to church. We did not get dinner till three oclock and we did not leave the table till after five oclock.     Ellington, Thursday, Nov 27th, 1862 Thanksgiving  About seven oclock Mifs Simonds and myself started for Mr Hydes to see Mary but she was not home so we walked on past Mr Hydes to Dr. Pease then we went the back way home. We went to bed at nine.     Friday 28th.  I was around the house all day. In the evening Gay and myself got permision to go to Mr Hydes and he got troope and I went fcor Anna Gunn but she had gone before I got there. When I went George Thomson and sister and Anna Gunn was there and after I was there a short time Gay Troop came in Mifs Hyde thought it was
Ellington, ThursdayEFriday), Nov 28, 1862.  a surprise party. We stayed till eleven oclock. I went home with Anna 3unn and when we got to the house she was choked out.     Saturday 29  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby and myself went to the cider mill. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 30  I was in school morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was reading in the evening.     Monday Dec 1.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 2  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Ellington, Wed. Dec 3th 1862.  I was in school all day and in society in the evening and I was President. It commenced to snow about four oclock and was snowing when I went to bed.     Thursday 4th  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 5th  After breakfast Gay and myself went to Morricys pond to see if the ice would bare and it did but was very rough. I was in school all day and in the evening.     Saturday 6  I got up at four oclock and wrote three letters and wrote in my jornal. It snowed all night and the snow
Ellington Saturday, Dec. 6th 1862  blew all day. I was in school in the fornoon. I was in school in the evening.     Sunday 7.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon and in school in the afternoon. I went to meeting in the conference room in the evening.     Monday 8  I was in school all day. After school all the boys went to Morrisys ditch to skate. In the evening we all went to the conference room to hear a Jew lecture on their customs and I took Mifs Mary & Elen Hyde home and I just got back in time for prayers. Sleighing is good.     Ellington, Tuesday, Dec. 9th 1662  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Wednesday 10  I was in school all day and I was in society in the evening.     Thursday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Friday 12.  I was not in school to-day for I had a bad cold.     Saturday 13  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby, Kapp and myself went to Rockville with Chapmans horse. We stayed all afternoon and Eby was tite drinking lager beer. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.
Ellington Sunday, Dec 14th 1862.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon to recite barnes notes. I went to meeting in the evening and I went home with Mifs Mary Hyde.     Monday 15.  I was in school all day and in the evening.     Tuesday 16  I was in school in the evening and all day.     Wednesday 17.  I was in school all day. The last society this term so we had some extras. We had oysters cake, candy for supper and the town scholars was invited in.     Ellington, Wednesday, Dec 17, 1862  After supper some of the boys sang. I was in society in the evening some of the boys gave their fare well speachs and others volunteered the last society this term.     Thursday 18  Delanson is in bed with the chills and I stayed with him all day. I studied in my room and when it was time to recite I went and recite my lesson then come back.     Friday 19.  I was in my room with Delanson all day but I went out to recite. I was in my room in the evening.
Ellington, Saturday, Dec 20, 1862  I was in my room all day with Delanson. In the evening I was in school.     Sunday 21.  I was in school and church as usual. I was in meeting in the evening.     Monday 22.  The second day of examination. Eby and Kapp start for home this morning. In the evening Gay, Spalding, Clark and myself went to a surprise party alt] Troops and there was thirteen couple of us. We did not leave till after eleven oclock, and we had a splendid time.     Wednesday 24.  I did not do any thing but lofe all day.     Thursday 25.  In the fornoon I got ready to go to Hartford. It was clowdy all day. We did not have dinner till one oclock and we had turkey. I got Chapmans horse and carriage about two oclock and went to
Ellington, Thursday, Dec 25th 1862  Hydes after Mary. We started for Hartford at a half past two and at half past four. We stoped at the United States. At eleven oclock Gay & Mifs Thompson Mifs Hyde and myself went to the Beethoven Society and we got reserved seats in the family circle. We saw the Ellington boys. It lasted four hours. We went to bed at twelve oclock.     Friday 26.  I got up at seven and went to the drawing room but the girles was not up yet. We went to breakfast at eight and we left Hartford at ten and we did not get to Ellington till two in the afternoon and we had splendid fun on the road.     Ellington, Friday, Dec 26, 1862  We took the girles home and then Gay and myself came home and got our dinner.     Saturday 27.  I did not do anything but lofe. In the evening I was reading.     Sunday 28.  I was in church morning and afternoon and we had to recite the first Psalm. I went to meeting in the evening and had singing after meeting and I went with Mary.     Monday 29.  I was in the house all day reading. In the evening I went to Mr Hydes and Mary and myself played backgammon from seven till eleven
Ellington, Monday, Dec. 29th 1862  and she beat me four out of six games and we had apples to eat. I got home near twelve oclock.     Tuesday 30.  I was in the house all day reading. I was in the house all evening reading. It commenced to snow in the evening. The pigs was out and Jerry could not get them in so we helped him.     Wednesday 31st.  I did not get up till eight oclock in the morning. I was reading all day. In the evening Mifs Simonds, Field, Delanson, Marrett, Rogers and myself made molasses candy and we pulled it till after nine oclock. We had prayers after  nine and all the boys went to bed but me and     Ellington, Wednesday, Dec 31st, 1862  Mr Hall was in the sittingroom. I stayed till eleven then I came to my room and Gay had a fire so I read till the new year commenced then I went to bed. It snowed all day and stoped in the evening, so it snowed one day and night. The snow is about one foot deep and splendid sleighing. The boys that are here this vacation are Rogers, Gay, Field, Diamon, Marrett, Delanson.



Ellington, Wednesday, Jan. 1, 1862'.  I got up at half past six after prayers we got our stockings  and each one got candy, cake,, wallnuts and popcorn. We had  chicken for breakfast. I stayed in the loor school room in  the fornoon. We had turkey for dinner and Warner was at the  head of the table but he could not carve so Mr. Hall came  and took his place. After dinner Gay and myself went down  to Ashly's store and had four glasses of scotch ale. In the  evening we went to singing school in the conference room,  and some of the boys was eating peanuts and throwing the  shucks on the floor and the teacher spoke about it and  mentioned Hall's schoolboys, and some of the boys came near  getting into a fight with some of the town boys. We came  home at half past nine. The sun was out all day but in the  evening it rained hard for two hours then it blew so hard  that last night it blew the steeple off of Thompsonville  church.  Thursday, 2.  I was not at prayers this morning for we did not hear the  bell and Ben came up to waken us.  Ellington, Thursday, Jan. 2, 1862. EEach time this title  appears it indicates the beginning of a new page in the  diary)
About ten o'clock Mr. Hall took Mrs. Simonds and the two  girls to Endfield but he came back half past one. Warner,  DeLanson and myselfe went to my room at ten o'clock in the  fornoon and I got a pitcher of milk in the kitchon and  dishes and we toasted over half a loaf of bread that I got  from home and we made milk toast and we eat it and from  there we went to dinner and we ware the last ones from the  table and some of the boys raised cain for Mr. hall was not  there and we ware all alone and Gardner found a worm in his  bread. At half-past one Warner, Clark, Felix, Delanson and  myself went to Mosleys and I beet Clark playing backgammon  then Mrs Mosley gave us popcorn, shelbarks. We came home by  five oclock and the wind blew and it was very cold. I went  to see MifsEMiss Booth in the evening and Jane Thompson  came and I got her ring and she tryed to get it of me but  could not. I stayed till nine then I went home and the boys  were in bed and the front door was locked so I went to the  kitchon door and went up staris with my boots off but Mr.  Hall did not know that I was out.  Ellington, Thursday, Jan. 2, 1862.  The sun was out all day but the wind blew very hard all day.  Friday 3.  I was up at Mifs Booth's in the fornoon and I practiced one  hour on the piano. In the afternoon I went to preparitcory  lecture. In the evening I went to the lyceum and the  subjec:t was Resolved that the ladies over thirty years of
age are a burden to society. I went with Mifs Booth from  the society. I went to bed at ten o'clock. The sun was out  all day.  Saturday 4.  In the fornoon Felix and myself walked around the mountain  square and we stoped at DconE?) Hammonds to leave something  that Mifs Kenney wanted me to take up there. From there we  went to Doctor Peases and Mrs. Pease gave us apples and  sider then she told me some things about Mifs Kenney. We  got home by noon.  Ellington, Saturday, Jan. 4, 1862.  After dinner I wrote some letters. Warner fainted in the  sitting room this evening when the doctor was feeling his  puslse. Mr. Hall put him in his room for the night  Sunday 5.  I was in church morning and afternoon. I recited The one  hundred and first psalm after tea. In the evening I stayed  in the house The sun was out all day.  Monday 6.  In the fornoon Kellogg and mself went around town trying to  get subscr ibers for two papers for Warner for he was sick so  that he ccould not go. In the afterncoon I c:leaned my clcoths  and clcoset. In the evening all the boys that were here in  vacatio:n was invited tco spend the evening at Arther Hydes
and Warner, Covel and Gay ware not so well so Mr Hall sent  them down in a sleigh and Bristol  Ellington, Monday, Jan. 6, 1862.  Felix, Delanson, Gardner, Kellogg and myself walked. We  started at six and stayed till nine oi'clock. We had  wallnuts, cakes and cheas for refreshments. The sun was out  all day.  Tuesday 7.  In the afternoon all the boys went to Rockville. Mr. Ashly  took us down in his two horse waggon. We left home at one  o'clock and did not get back till after five. We all got  our hair cut. When we started for home their were a crowd  of boys around the waggon trying to raize a fight. The last  day of vacation and the evening was the dullest. The sun  was out all day.  Wednesday 8.  The first day of school and their was sixteen boys here and  onley one of the teachers. The sun was out all day. The  thermometer was ten degrees below zero in the morning. In  the  Ellington, Wednesday, Jan 8, 1862.  evening some of the boys came. We had society in the  evening but did not do any thing but elect officvers for the  en i tiat io'n.
Thursday 9.  The second day of school but did not dEo] much Some of the  boys came today. In the evening the society had a meeting  and we innitiated the new boys. The sun was out all day.  Friday 10.  I was in school all day. Clowdy with rain. In the evening  the society met to choosEe) regular officers.  Saturday 11.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was in  my room studying my Parker's aids all afternoon. In the  evening I was in school and had a bible lesson to learn.  Clear and cold. The boys went skating in the afternoon.  Ellington, Sunday, Jan. 12, 1862  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon. I went to Mifs Booths in the evening. It snowed  last night and the snow is six inches deep. Foggy all day.  Monday 13.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The boys are  not all here yet. It rained and made skating.  Tuesday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The boys ware  skateing in the street. After school we went skateing on  the ditch back o:f Charters and scome of the boys skated from
the school house to the ditch. We ware there one hour. The  sun was out all day.  Wednesday 15.  I was in school all day. It rained and stormed all day but  cleared off in the evening.  Ellington, Wednesday, Jan 15, 1862  I was in society in the evening and we had chestnuts to eat.  Thursday 16.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day but it was cold.  Friday 17.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I was over at  Mifs Booth's in the evening and I had a rough and tumble  with Jane Thompson. It was clear to day.  Saturday 18.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was in  my room studing and writing. Clowdy in the morning but it  commenced to rain at noon. I was in school in the evening  learning bible lesson.  Sunday 19.  I was in schocol in the morning tco recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning  Ellington, Sunday, Jan. 19, 1862.
and afternoon. I was in school after church. I was over at  Mifs Booth's in the evening. It rained all day.  Monday 20.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I sawed wood  two hours today. It rained all day and the trees have so  much ice on them that some of the limbs broke down. I  commenced to practice on the piano again after I was sick.  Tuesday 21.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clear and cold  all day.  Wednesday 22.  I was in school all day and I was in society in the evening.  It snowed all day. Mifs Upson came here in the evening and  had a long talk with Mr. Hall.  Ellington, Thursday, Jan. 23, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It was clear  all day and sleighing is splendid.  Friday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day. I prac:ticed on the piano today. We went to bed at  half past eight.  Saturday 2..  I was in school all fornoon and had tco declaim and read. It  hailed in the fornoon in the afternoon it rained. I was in
my room studing from one to four ocloc:k then I sawed wood  till tea time after tea I washed. I was in school in the  evening to learCn] bible lesson.  Sunday 26.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon.  Ellington, Sunday, Jan. 26, 1862.  I was at Mifs Booth's in the evening. It was clear all day.  Monday 27.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day. I took a lesson in music today.  Tuesday 28.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I went out of  school at half past three o'clock and Mr Hall had gone to  Rockville so I went in the house to see Mrs. Simonds and I  gave her some tea and she took it to the kitchon and we had  a cup of tea and a lunch in the dinning room and she gave me  some milk and after supper I had some milk and crackers in  my room. The boys went skating after school but I did not  go. I weigjh 140 lb. at the present time.  Ellington, Wednesday, Jan 29, 1862.  I was in school all day. Clowd and rain part of the day.  We ware skating on the crust of the snow we could go all
over the fields. In the evening we did not have any society  but Mr. Hall made all the boys that went skating go to the  stove and dry their feet.  Thursday 30.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day but did not thaw. We went to bed at half past eight  oc 1 ock.  Friday 31.  I was in school all day. After school we went skating on  the crust of the snow in the fields. In the eveining all  the boys had permission to go to hear a lecture on  Washington by the Rev. Clape of Rockville in the conference  room and we did not get back till near ten o'clock.  Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 1, 1862.  I was in school in the forncon. In the afternoon we had a  ride ona sleigh around the mountain square. After that I  went to my room and studied till evening. I was in school  in the evening and had bible lesson to learn. It snowed  part of the day.  Sunday 2.  I was in schocol in the morning tco recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school after  church till tea time. I was at Mifs Booth's all evening.  The sun out all day.
Monday 3.  I was in school till half past three o'clock then I went to  practice but on my way up to Mifs Booth's Wm Ashly came on  behind me with a horse and sleigh and he asked me to go with  him to Rockville and I went with him and we stoped at the  exchange  Ellington, Monday, Feb 3, 1862.  and he treated to the ale. I got some crackers at the  bakers. We came back by five o'clock. I went without  permission. Mr. Hall went to Hartford today and after  dinner the boys went in the setting room and raised cain and  Mary Simonds put some of the chairs on top of each other and  when Mrs. Simonds came in the room she told the boys that  she told Mr. Wilson and he told the boys to gow out of the  room but Gardner would not go so Wilson pushed him out and  took him to his room and punished him with a ruler on the  hand and he is eichteen years old. I did not go out for I  did not do anything and he did not do anything to me. When  he found that Mary Simond's did it he appoligised to the  boys. The sun was out all day.  Ellington, Tuesday, Feb. 4, 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening. I did not study  muc:h today fo'r I was unwell. It snowed part of a the day.  Wednesday 5.
I was in school till half past eleven then the whole school  walked from the school house to the grave-yard in a  procession before the hearse. It was young man that went to  school here and is a relation of Mr Hall's. We did not get  home till half past twelve. I did not get my dinner till  one oclock for my nose was bleeding so that I could not go  in. I went in singing school when they ware half through.  In the evening I was in society. The sun was out all day.  Thursday 6.  I was in school till three o'clock. Mr. Hall got a sleigh  and four horses at Rockville  Ellington, Thursday, Feb 6, 1862.  to take us the whole of us out sleighing. We started at  three oclock and the town scholars had teams of their own.  It was snowing when we started and snowed all the time we  ware gone. We went to Vernon and Dobsonville and from there  to Rockville. The distance was over twenty miles. Mr. Hall  had a supper prepared for us at Rockville at the hotel. We  did not leave till after seven and we ware singing the whole  rcad home.  Friday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Cliear all day.  Saturday 8.  I was in school in the forncoon. In the afternoon I was in  the small resitatior rocom writing from one tco five oclock
after supper I washed all over. I was in school in the  evening to study bible lesson. The boys went off to  Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 8, 1862.  slide down hills all afternoon. Clear all day.  Sunday 9.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school after  church till tea time. In the evening I was in my room  writing. The sun was out all day.  Monday 10.  I was in school all day and in the evening. After tea we  all went to slide down hill at the grave yard and stayed  till seven. The sun was out all day.  Tuesday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I wenEt] to  slide after school and stayed until tea time. The sun was  out all day and the snow thawed some. It was Es~nowing when  I went to bed.  Ellington, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 1862.  I was in school all day and in society in the evening. It  commenced tco snow in the morning and continued till noon the  sun came out and it was very warm.  Thursday 13.
I was in school all day and in the evening. It commenced to  snow in the morning and continued till noon then the sun  came out very warm.  Friday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It rained part  of the fornoon and the sun was out in the afternoon.  Saturday 15.  I was in school in the fornoon and was in Willsons room  studying my freesE?] for the middle of the term. In the  afternoon I was in the school room writing. It snowed near  all day. I was in school in the evening  Ellington, Saturday, Feb. 15, 1862.  to study bible lesson. I was writing in the evening.  Sunday 16.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon to recite barns notes. I was writing letters in  the evening.  Monday 17.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clowdy all day  and rained in the evening.  Tuesday 19.  I was in school all day and in the evening. RaringErain ing)  in the morning but cleared coff by noon and the sun came out.
Wednesday 19.  I was in school all day and in society  Ellington, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 1862.  in the evening.  Thursday 20.  I was in school all day and in the evening. After school in  the afternoon L. King and myself went to walk. The sun was  out all day.  Friday 21.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clear all day.  Saturday 22.  I was in school in the fornoon and we did not do any thing  but speak our peaces for the middle of the term. In the  afternoon I did not do much of anything. I was in school in  the evening to learn bible lesson. The sun was out all day.  Sunday 23.  I was in school in the morning to recite  Ellington, Sunday, Feb. 23, 1862.  bible lesscon. I was in church morning and afternoion. I was  in schoo:l in the afternoon. rhe sun was cout all day and  thawed very much. I went to meeting in the evening.  Monday 24.
I was in school all day and in the evening. About half past  eight o'clock the small resitaticon room caught on fire. The  cause of the fire was that the stove was too close to the  wall and it set the paper on fire and burnt a side of the  chimney up through the roof and the boys got a ladder and  got on the roof and put it Out. Gardner was the first one  that seen the fire. Clowdy all day.  Tuesday 25.  In the fornoon Mr Hall herd us rehurse our peaces till  reases. In the afternoon  Ellington, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 1862.  after reases some of the boys spoke and their was some  ladies there and Mr Fesenden was their. In the evening  about twenty of us spoke and I broke down so I went to my  seat and after some of the other boys had spoken Mr Hall  made me try it again. There ware about sixty ladies and  gentlemen there. Very cold and windy.  Wednesday 26.  I was in school till three oclock then all the boys went  skating on Hydes lot and we stayed till five oclock. There  was about twenty ladies on the ice skat ing and abcout fifty  boys. In the even ing I was in soc iety. The sun was out all  day.  Thursday 27.  I was in school till eleven oclock
Ellington, Thursday, Feb 27, 1862.  then all the boys that wanted to go in the house could and  those that to stay out in the school house could. Mr Hall  had a meeting in the setting room from eleven to twelve to  pray for colleges and schools. We ware in school from one  to two oclock then we all had to go to church and it was  held in the conference room and Morris spoke went off the  subject so Mr Brockway called him to order but he did not  lisen to him and had a great time.  Friday 28.  I was in school all day and in the evening. At two oclock I  went to preparitory lecture. The sun was out all day.  Saturday, March 1, 1862.  I was in school all forenoon in the afternoon all the boys  went skating  Ellington, Saturday, Mar. 1, 1862.  in the afternoon and Mr Hyde sent us home at half past two  but when we got home some of the boys asked Mr Hall if we  could not go back again and he sed we migh~t] stay till half  past four so we went back and I skated with Jane Thompson  and Ellen Hyde. I was in school in the evening to learn  bible lesson. The sun was out all day but it was very  windy.  Sunday 2.
I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. In the afternoon the  Lords supper was held. I was in school after church till  tea time. The sun was out all day.  Monday 3.  I was in school all day and in the  Ellington, Monday, Mar. 3, 1862.  evening. 1.0. King was sent to bed on sunday night and was  their all day. The sun was out all day. After school in  the afternoon we all went skating on Mr Hydes lot and their  was a lot of ladies their it commenced to rain as we left.  Tuesday 4.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clowdy in the  fornoon in the afternoon it cleared off cold.  Wednesday 5.  I was in school all day. In the evening all the boys went  to hear a lecture on working and shirking by Doc. Holland of  Springfield and we payed fifteen sts.EcentsJ admition. The  lecture commenced at half past seven and let out at nine.  The lecture was in  EllIington, Wednesday, Mar 5, 1862.  the church and it was full. Doc: Holland is the author of  the letters to young ladies and gentleman. He delivered the  same subject in Washington the week before. Clear all day.
Thursday 6.  I studyd from seven to eight the the boys went to Mr Hall to  let us go down on the marsh so he told us we mighEt] go till  ten o'clock so all the boys went down on the march but we  ware not there ling before the ladies came so I went with  Anna Gunn and we skated some time then we started to go  aroud the pond but the ice was not strong enough for both of  us so it brokEe3 and we both went into the water up to our  knees and the ice broke whare ever we went so that had to  leave her get out her sel f and when  Ellington, Thursday, Mar 56 1862.  she could skate we went and sit down on the fence till she  got rested then I took her home and climing fences she tore  her dress and I my pants by the time we arrived home her  dress was as stiff as a board. It was all over town that we  brokEe3 through the ice before night. We went in school at  half past ten and had school till five to make up lost time.  I was in school in the evening. Clear and cold. The fields  are all ice.  Friday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I was studing  frcom four to five and reading from half past five tco seven I  was reading my lessl iaElessonJ. The sun was out all day and  thawed but the skating is splendid.  Ellington, Saturday, Mar, B 1862.
After breadfast we all went down on a pond back of Brockways  house till eight o'clock to skate. I was in school all  fornooon in the afternoon I stayed around the house but some  of the boys went skating. I was in school in the evening to  study bible lesson. The sun was Cout all day very warm.  Sunday 9.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church in the morning and afternoon. I was in schoo'l  at noon to read bible and in the afernoon till tea time to  recite barns notes. In the evening I went to sunday school  concert. The sun was out all day.  Monday 10.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Clowdy and rain  all day.  Ellington, Monday, Mar. 10, 1862.  Their was skating in the fornoon.  Tuesday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Mr Hall went  away in the afternoon and the boys raised cain all night and  Mr Willson wipped T. Covel for making a noise. The sun out  all day.  Wednesday 12.  I was in schocol all day and in the evening I was in society  and Mr Will son took Mr HallI's pl ace and when we ware through
he gave a description of College life. After school I went  around the mountain square. The sun was out all day. Mr.  Hall was not home to night so Mr Willson slept in his room.  I stayed up till eleven oclock writing letters.  Ellington, Thur., Mar. 13, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day and warm.  Saturday 15.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed  in my room and sit at the fire and put my feet at the stove  to burn the cold that I had in my head and Wheeler stayed  with me all afternoon. I was in school in the evening. It  rained in the fornoon in the afternoon it hailed and in the  evening it commenced to snow.  Sunday 16.  I was in school in the morning. I was at church morning and  afternoon. I was  Ellington, Sunday, Mar. 16, 1862.  in school in the afternoon. In the evening Warner and  myself went to call on Mifs Booth. Snowing all day.  Monday 17.
I was in school all day and in the evening. It snowed all  day.  Tuesday 18.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day.  Wednesday 19.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society.  After tea Hoghton and mysel f run all civer the marsh.  Thursday 20.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and the  sleighing is splendid.  Friday 21.  I was in school all day and in the  Ellington, Friday, Mar. 21, 1862.  evening. Clowdy all day.  Saturday 22.  I was in school in the fornoon to learn my peace for the  examination. I was around the house all day. I was in  school in the evening to learn a bible lesson. Snowed all  day.  Sunday 23.  I was in school in the morning tco recite bible lesson.I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the
afternoon till tea time. I was in the house all evening.  Snowed and rained all day.  Monday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I had to stay  after school for missing my spelling lesson the first time  for one year. The sun out all day.  Ellington, Tuesday, Mar, 25, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day.  Wednesday 26.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society.  The sun was out all day.  Thursday 27.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day.  Friday 28.  I was in school day. In the evening we all went down to the  lecture room to hear Mr Fssend deliver a lecture on corn to  the society. After I come home I read in bed till twelve  o1 l c k.  Saturday 29.  I was in school in the fornocon. In the afternoon I was  reading. I was in
Ellington, Saturday, Mar. 29, 1862.  school in the evening to learn bible lesson.  out all day.  The sutn was  Sunday Monday 30.  I was in school in the morning recite bible lesson. I was  in church morning and afternoon. The sun was out all day.  Monday 31.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Snow squals all  day.  Tuesday, Apr. 1, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  all day.  The sun was out  Wednesday 2.  I was in school all clay and in the evening I was in society.  The sun was out all day.  Thursday 3.  I was in school all day and in the  Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 3, 1862.  evening. The sun was out all day.  Friday 4.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  all day.  The sun was out
Saturday 5.  I was in school all day fornoon in the afternoon I was  around the house . I was in school in the evening to re  learn bible lesson. It rained all day.  Sunday 6.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. The sun was out all  day.  Monday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening. The sun was out  all day.  Ellington, Tuesday, Apr. 9, 1862.  I was in school all day and at half past three oclock Mr  Hall had Mr Hyde to bring his sisters melodian in the school  room and he had the singing teacher to come and Mrs Pattent  played the melodian and we had practiced till after four  oclock. In the evening Mr Hall invited some of the town  people into hear us sing in the evening and the room was  full. Mifs Pattent plaid the melodian and Wesson plaid the  violin. We went to bed at nin oclock. The sun was out all  day.  Wednesday 9.  I was in school all day. I was in society in the evening.  The sun was out all day.
Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 10, 1862.  I was in schoolC all) day and in the evening. The sun was  out all day.  Friday 11.  I was in school Eall] day and in the evening. The sun was  out all day. The sun is not all gone yet.  Saturday 12.  I was in school in the fornoon to speak our peices for the  exhibition. I was in schol in the evening to learn bible  lesson.  Sunday 13.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon. I stayed in the house in the evening. The sun  was out all day.  Ellington, Monday, Apr. 14, 1862.  The first day of examination but there was not any person to  hear us. In the evening we had our exhibition and the  school room was full of strangers. The sun was out all day.  Tuesday 15.  The second day of examination and there was strangers in to  hear us examined. Some of the boys went home this evening.  The sun was out all day.
Wednesday 16.  The first day of vacation. The remainder of the boys that  were going home left this morning. Mifs Nichols left for  home this morning and she cryed before she left. Thomas Lee  aked me to take him to the depot and I  Ellington, Wednesday, Apr. 16, 1862.  excepted of his offer and he and Kellogg went after the  horse and when he came he had Eh)is cousin Mifs. Clar.: in  the waggon and she went with us to vernon and after the boys  left in the train I came back with Mifs Clark and I had a  pleasant time comming home. I took dinner at Mr Fessendens  and staid till after two oclock then I came home. In the  evening I stayed in the house and read. The sun was out all  day.  Thursday 17.  I was around the house all day. About five oclock Elli  Warner, T. Covel, J. Gay D. Young, Mrs. Simonds and myself  went to Endfield and W. Ashly took us up in his fathers two  horse waggon. We started after five and arrived in  Ellington, Thursday, Apr. 17, 1862.  Endfield about seven oclock we took Mrs. Simonds to  Spaldings then we went to the to:wn hall. The concert  commenced at seven and was out at ten. We did not leave  till half past ten and Ashly did not Ek~now the road so we  went one mile beyond the road so he had to turn and go: back
and when we got into the wright road before we went a mile  we got on a wrong road again so we had to turn again. The  staresEstars) were out but it was dark. C~ovel and Delanson  went to sleep on the floor of the waggon. We ware singing  near all the road home. We got in the house by one o'clock  and we wenEt] to bed as soon as we came in the house. The  sun was out all day.  Ellington, Friday, Apr. 18, 1862.  I did not get up till half past seven oclock. I went to  church at ten oclock and in the afterncoon at half past two.  Today was fast day for the state. In the evening Warner and  myself went to call on Mifs Booth and we did not get back  till after prayers. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 19.  About seven oclock Gay, Felix, Delanson and myself went to  Rockville and we walked. We had our hair cut then we  started to come home and we arrived by noon and I was tired  by the time I got home. In the afternoon I read and wrote.  The sun was out al1 day.  Sunday 20.  We did not learn a bible lesson to  Ellington, Sunday, Apr. 20, 1862.  day but we went to church morning and afternoon and the  minister from Summers preached. After church I sleept till
tea time. In the evening Warner and myself went to my room  and had something to drink then we went to Mifs Boots and  spent the evening. C:lowdy but not rain  Sunday 21.  Monday 21.  In the forenoon Gay, Felix, Delanson and myself started for  Rockville about seven oclock and  Monday 21.  It rained all day and I stayed around the house.  Tuesday 22.  It rained all fornoon in the afternoon I slept part of the  time. In the evening  Ellington, Tuesday, Apr. 22, 1862.  I went down to the church to singing school.  Wednesday 23.  In the fornoon Warner and myself went to Rockville to get  pants for Warner then we went to the barbers. Comming home  Warner went to the houses to get money for sick soldiers but  he only got fifty cts. I We got home by noon. In the  afternoon I stayed around the house. In the evening I went  down to singing school.  Thursday 24.
In the morning about eight oclo:ck Mr Hall and Mary Simonds  and Sophia Hall went to Enfield in a two horse carriage  that Mr Hall hired at Rockville, Mrs Simonds  Ellington, Thursday, April 24, 1862.  went to Enfield the evening before. Mr Hall and Mrs.  Simonds were married at ten cclocck at Enfield by the  minister there and they came back by five oclock and they  went to bed by half past nine o'clock. I stayed around the  house all forncon and read. In the afternoon I went down to  the church to have my voice tryed and to sing some I stayed  till four o'clock. In the evening I went to singing school  down at the church and did not get back till ten. It snowed  a short time in the morning, and it was very cold all day.  Friday 25.  In the fornoon I sawed wood. In the afternoon I did some  reading. In the evening I went to singing school and did  not get back till ten oclock.  Ellington, Saturday, Apr. 26, 1862.  In the fornoon I was reading. In the afternoon Warner,  Covel and myself went to R'ckville to do some buisness for  Mr Hall and we had his horse and buggy and we did ncot get  back till tea time. In the evening Warner and myself stayed  in the setting room. The sun was out all day.  Sunday 27.
We got up at seven eclock. I was at church morning and  afternoon and went to meeting in the conference room at half  past five. We had to learn the first psalm to recite  to-day. After sun down Warner and myself went to see Mifs.  Booth and from there we went to see Mr. Arther Hyde and  Warner did not give me  Ellington, Sunday, Apr. 27, 1862.  an introduction to Mifs Mary Hyde but she spoke to me. The  sun was out all day. I read in bed after prayers till  twelve oclock.  Monday 28.  Felix started for Boston this morning and Warner for  Middletown. Mr Hall asked me to go to Enfield to bring  Mifs. Sarah Simonds home so I excepted and I started about  nine oclock and I had Mr Hall's horse and a spring waggon  with two seats and Mary Simonds and Sophia Hall went along  and we got there about half past ten. I went in the house  and had an introduction to Mifs Simonds we stayed at  Spaldings a half hour then we started for home and on the  road I had quite a pleasant chat  Ellington, Monday, Apr. 28, 1862.  with Mifs. Simconds. We reached home by two oclock then we  had dinner and after dinner I went to reading and read till  fcour oclock. I went tc singing school in the evening. The  sun was out all day.
Tuesday 29.  We had prayers at seven oclock. I was in the school house  writing all fornoon and in the afternoon. It rained in  showers all day. I went to singing school in the evening.  Wednesday 30.  Gay, Covel, Delanson and myself started for Hartford at  seven and arrived at half past nine. I had some photographs  taken. We all went to Greens resterant for dinner, and we  went to Fishers to get some  Ellington, Wednsday, Apr. 30, 1862.  clothing. We left Hartford at five and got back by eight  oclock then we had tea then we went to singing school and I  wore my beever when I come home. I did not go to bed till  eleven but Mr Hall and wife was not at home they ware at  Hartford all night. We had Smiths horse.  Thursday May 1.  I got up at eight oclock. then we had breakfast. I stayed  around the house all day. In the evening Mr Hall and wife  came home. Our singing class gave an exhibition in the  evening in the church but the church was not full. It was  clowdy all day and rained in the evening.  Friday 2.  I went to Rockville for Mr Hall and Gay  Ellington, Friday, May 2, 1862.
went with me. We started about six in the morning and I got  measured for a pare of pants. When we started for home it  rained very hard and I got wet. I stayed around the house  the remainder of the day. I stayed in the house all  evening.  Saturday 3.  In the fornoon I was writing in the afternoon I helped Mr  Hall to lay carpet in the parlor and reception room and to  unpack Mrs. Hall furniture that came from vermont. After  tea I went to Rockville after Alfered Hall and Charles Hall  came that afternoon. I did not learn a bible lesson to-day.  The sun was out all day.  Sunday 4.  I went to church morning and afternoon  Ellington, Sunday, May 4, 1862.  and I went to meeting at half past five. I did noEt] have  to learn a bible lesson to-day. I took a nap in the  afternoon. The sun was out all day.  Monday 5.  I slept near all afternoon then I went over to Chapman's  shop and he gave me some sider. In the evening Gay,  Spalding, Covel, Laine, Delanscon and myself went tco see Mr  Hyde and we plaid gaims. and had wallInuts for refreshments.  We did not leave till half past eleven oclock. We had a  splendid time. It co:mmenced to rain about eleven at noon it
thundered it continued to rain all day but cleared off in  the evening.  Tuesday 6.  In the fornoon I helped Mrs. Hall to lay  Ellington, Tuesday, May 6, 1362.  carpet on the front stairs. In the evening some of the boys  came home. I rained part of the day.  Wednesday 7.  The first day of a school and their was twelve boys in  school too day. In the evening most all the boys came. The  sun was out all day. We went to bed at nine oclock.  Thursday 8.  The second day of school. The boys ware near all here. Eby  came from Hartford with his father in a carriage and they  arrived here about ten oclock and I went out of school and  stayed out till his father left town. The sun was out all  day. Mr Hall had a bed put in my room for Eby.  Ellington, Friday, May 9, 1362.  The third day of school and I did not recite and thing but  Algibra. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 10.  I was in school in the fornoon and hafd tco speak a peace.  In the afternoon Eby and myself hired Chapmans horse and
carriage to go to- Rockville and we started about two oclock  and we stoped at the Ellington mill and Thayer went with us  through the mill from there we went to Rockville and Eby had  his hair cult and we bought some crackers and lemons. I got  a pair of pants. We arrived home just as the tea bell rung.  After tea I washed. I was in school in the evening to learn  bible lesson. After it got dark we got Chapmans boy to  bring the crackers 8 lb. and the lemons  Ellington, Saturday, May 10, 1862.  into the gymnacium and when we came out of school we took  them to our room. The sun was out all day but it was very  windy.  Sunday 11.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was at church in the forn'oon after dinner we had to go in  school to read the bible after that we went to church. At  half past three we went in school to learn and recite a  lesson in barns notes. After tea I went to sunday school  concert in the curch after that we went in school to return  our libraries. After sun down Eby, Warner and myself took a  walk up past the high school and two of the girles ware at  the window and we waved our hanakerchiefs and they did.  Ellington, Sunday, May 11, 1862.
the same then we went to Chafy's and bought some milk to  dr ink. After prayers Eby, Delanson and myself made some  lemonade. The sun was out all day.  Monday 12.  I was in school in the fornoon and in the afternoon.  Tuesday 13.  I was in school all day and I was working on my flower bed.  The sun was out all day.  Wednesday 14.  I was in school all day and the sun was out all day.  Thursday 15.  I was in school all day and the sun was very warm. Eby and  myself had our milk in the evening. We went to bed at half  past eight.  Ellington, Friday, May 16, 1862.  I was in school all day. I got up at four oclock this  morning to write a letter. It was so warm that I had my  coat and vest off in school. When I went to bed I found  some spruce in my bed.  Saturday 17.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed  aroud the house. I was in school in the evening to study  bible lesscon.
Sunday 18.  I was in school in the morning to recit bible lesson. I  went to church morning and afternoon. I had to go in school  at noon to read bible lesson. In the afternoon we had to go  in school to learn barns notes. I stayed in the sitting  room after tea till  Ellington, Sunday, May 18, 1862.  meeting was out. After sun down Eby and myself went  walking. The sun was out all day.  Monday 19.  I was in school all day. After tea Eby and myself went  around the mountain square and we stoped on the road to see  Mrs Pease and she gave use some flowers. It was very cold  in the evening and rained in showers all day.  Tuesday 20.  I was in school all day. In the evening Eby and myself took  a walk. The sun was out all day.  Wednesday 21.  I was in school all day and it was clowdy part of the day  and cold in the fornoon so that we had fire in the  Ellington, Wednesday, May 21, 1862.  school room. In the evening Eby and myself went walking.I  was reading in my room in the evening.
Thursday 22.  I was in school all day. Eby's box came this morning and it  was brokEe) open we took the things out of the box at noon  and put them in my chest the floor was covered all over  shuger. In the evening I played foot ball. The sun was out  all day.  Friday 23.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 24.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby and  myself stayed in our room all afternoon  Ellington, Saturday, May 24, 1962  and we ware talking to Sarah Simonds from our window to her  in her room and Eby played cards with her through the  windows and when it was Eby's deal she throwed the cards in  our room by putting them in her handkerchief. She came to  our room and we gave her a drink of brandy and we was at the  window all afternoon. I was in school all evening to learn  bible lesson. after school we went over to Chafys and drank  a quart of milk. The sun was out all day.  Sunday 25.  I was in school in the morning tc recite bible lesson. I was  in church morning and afternoon and evening I went walking  after sun dcown.
Ellington, Sunday, May 25, 1862.  Warner and myself sat in old hundred's slip to--day. In the  evening Eby and myself was in our room eating cheas crackers  and tung. The sun was out all day.  Monday 26.  I was in school all day.  walking in the evening.  Tuesday 27.  I was in school all day.  and part raining.  The sun was out all day. I went  The sun was out part of the day  Wednesday 28.  I was in school all day.  Thursday 29.  I was in school all day.  Ellington, Friday 30 May  I was in school all day.  evening I went walking.  The sun was out all day.  The sun was out all day.  The sun was out all day. IN the  Saturday 31.  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day.  After dinner Eby and myself hired Chapman's horse and buggy  and went up around snipsic lake to Rockville and when we got  to the lake we found Delanson, Olmsted, Hudson and Lee in  swimming. We stayed at Rickville about an hour and we got
home abLut five ocliocl. I was in school in the evening to  learn bible lesson.  Sunday June 1.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church  Ellington, Sunday, June 1, 1862.  morning and afternoon. In the afternoon I was in school to  recite barns notes. I was reading all evening. It rained  all day in showers.  Monday 2.  I was in school all day. The sun was out and it was very  warm.  Tuesday 3.  I was in school all day. It rained all day.  Wednesday 4.  I was in Eschool) all day. It rained all day. I went to  bed at half past eight.  Thursday 5.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  EllIington, Friday, June 6, 1862  I was in schocol all day. The sun was out all day. After  tea Eby and mysel f went to walk1 dcown tcown and when we got to  Ashleys store we saw Sarah Simonds and Sarah Spalding ccoming
up street and theEy) waved their handkerchiefs and crossed  the street on the side that I was on and went to the  semetery gate and worked at it as if they could not open it  so I opened it for them and we went in with them and came  back to the house with them. After Mifs Spalding started  for home EBy and myself walked up to the red house and shot  mar k.  Saturday, 7  I was in school all fornoon. The sun was out all day.  Ellington Sunday, June 8, 1862  I was in school in the fornoon to recite bible lesson. I  was in schurch morning and afternoon. It rained till four  oclock then it cleared off.  Monday 9.  I was in school all day. In the evening I went to walk and  Eby and myself bought a pineapple at the post-officEe3. The  sun was out all day.  Tuesday 10.  I was in school all day. The sun was out al1 day.  Wednesday 11.  I was in school all day. The sun was cout all day. After  tea Eby and mysel f walked around the mcuntain square. In  the evening we eat a pineapple.  Ellington, Thursday, June 12, 1862.
I was in school all day and it was very warm. In the  evening i went to Mifs Booth's and we went to see Mifs  Griswold and they played on the piano and we sung together.  I did not start for home till nine oclock when I got to the  house the boys had gone to bed and the lite was out in the  setting room and Mr Hall was in his bed room. The front  door was locked but the window in the entry under the  peazaL?) was boedEbowed3 so I opened it and when I got in  the entry I took my boots off and when I went to my room the  matches was hid and water in the box. Mr Hall did not say  any thing to me for not being at prayers  Ellington, Thursday, June 12, 1862.  and coming in so late or he did not know that I was out.  Friday 13.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall  and wife went to Enfield and did not get back till six  oclock in the evening. Eby and Sarah Simonds went in the  parlor after dinner to play card and Hudson went to the door  and caught him on the sofa with his arm around her. After  tea Eby, Olmsted, Delanson and myself asked to walk around  the mountain square and we went to the mill pond to swim and  we got some straw berr ies and we saw large frogs. We got  back by eight o' clock then I went up to Mi fs Booth's  Ellingtcn, Friday, June 13, 1862.
and she gave me some ice cream then I got Ben to get me a  quart of milk at Chafy's and he took it to my room and after  Mr Hall took the lites down stairs we had peaches and milk.  After prayers Mr Hall madEe] all the boys stop in the  sitting that was throwing water the night before then he  madEe] them get their pitchers and pails and he put them  away till the end of the term and their is only four boys  that have water in their rooms the rest of the boys have to  go to the seller to wash in the morning.  Saturday 14.  I was in school all fornoon. After dinner Eby, Olmsted,  Field, Delanson and myself started for frogs. When we got  to the post-offic Eby and  Ellington, Saturday, June 14, 1862  myself went in and had some beer from their we went to the  mill pond up on the mountain. Just before we got their we  sent Delanson and Olmsted in a house to buy some pies but  they would not sell any so we went to the spring angEd) got  a drink and we asked at the house near the mill for pies and  we baught two rhubarb pies and we took the pies and plates  to the pond and eat them then we caught all the frogs we  could then we went in swiming and caught some more then we  eate all the strawberries we wanted and each of us braught a  bunch home I gave mine to: Mrs. Hall and Tucker. We caught  fourty frogs.
Ellington, Saturday, Jurne 14, 1862  We arrived home at half past five and Sarah Simonds coc'ked  them for us and we had Tucker and Tho:'mpson to help us to eat  them and we gave Mrs Hall and Mrs Bayard some. We killed  three snakes at the pond. I was in school in the evening.  The sun was out all day.  Sunday 15.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternocon. I was in school in the  afternoon till the tea bell rang. After tea I went to  sunday school concert. In the evening I was singing in the  house. After that Warner and myself went to see Mifs Booth  and Mr Hall was watching us and when he saw  Ellington Sunday, June 15, 1862  us go in the house he came after us but he did not see any  thinkEg) so he left and after he was gone we had some beer.  It rained in the morning till ten oclock then it cleared  off.  Monday 16  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day but it was  very cold we had a fire in the school room to-day. In the  evening Eby, Mifs Blooth, Sarah Simonds and myself walked  around the four mile square and Eby wore his soave dress and  Sarah ware one hat and Mifs Booth the other and we wore
their hats threw town. We all had some beer at the post  offic and at Mifs Booths.  Ellington, Tuesday, June 17, 1862.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the  afternoon after school Tucker and myself walked to Rockville  and we had some beer ice cream and orangs when we got home  had a cup of tea then we went to Felix room and Eby, Porter,  Salding, Bristol and myself had lemonade to drink. I had a  brother born today.  Wednesday 18  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall  went to New Ycrk to-day. After tea Warner and myself went  walking after we came back we had something to drink. I  stayed up till eleven oclock writing.  Thursday 19.  I was in school all day the sun was  Ellington, Thursday, June 19, 1862.  out all day. After tea I went with Sarah Simonds around to  the boys to take the boys washing to their room.  Friday 20.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Felix  had a stick in his desk and cne of the boys put it on the  floor and Fell ix picked it up and Tucker told him tco bring  it to him and he told him he would not sco Tucker told him to
leave the room and he sed he would so Tucker told him he  should not leave till he brought the stick to him but Felix  left the room and went to his room and stayed till evening  then Mr Hall Had a talk with him and he had to ask pardon of  Ellington, Friday, June 20, 1862.  Mr. Tucker.  Saturday 21.  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon Mr. Tucker,  Eby, Delanson and myself walked to Rockville. While Eby and  EDelanson) ware geting their hair cut Tucker and myself went  and got some lager-beer then I got meshered for a pare of  shoes then we all had a glass of beer. We came home in time  for tea. I was in school in the evening.  Sunday 22.  I was in school in the morning and in Church morning and  afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon till tea time.  After dinner Olmstead brought four tumblers of strawberries  in out room and we got suger and cake so we had a nice time.  I was writing in the  Ellington, Sunday June 22, 1862.  even ing.  Monday 23.  I was in school all day. After tea Eby and myself went tco  martins and bought a quart cof strawberries and we went in
the house and they set the table and we had shuEglar and  cream with them and we eat all of them after that we went to  Mifs Bcooth's and while we was their Jane Thompson and Anna  Gunn came in and I got Jane to play the piano when they left  EI went with them to Thompsons when we got their the prayer  bell rang so we left. The sun was out all day.  Tuesday 24.  I was in school all day. At noon I went to Martins and got  him  Ellington, Tuesday, June 24, 1862.  to take a quart of strawberries to Mirfs Booth and she had  two quarts and she made a strawberry shortcake and Eby,  Delanson and myself had an invitation to take tea their. We  went to tea at home then we went to Mifs Booths and we had  cake, meat, strawberries and cream and strawberry short cake  after tea Eby and Mifs Booth played a game of checkers then  I played a game of backcgamon with her then we left.  Wednesday 25.  I was in school all day. It rained all day. Iwas studying  in the evening.  Thursday 26.  I was in sc:hool all day. It rained in showers all day.  Ellington, Friday, June 27, 1862.  I was in school all1 day. The sun was out all day.
Saturday 28.  I was in school all fornoon, in the afternoon I stayed  around the house. When the bcys went swimming I went  walking with Sarah Simonds and we called on Jane Thompson.  I was school in the evening.  Sunday 29.  I was in school in the morning. I was in church morning and  afterncon. I was in school in the afternoon. It was clowdy  all day but it did not rain.  Monday 30.  I was not in school in the fornoon.  Ellington, Monday, June 30, 1862  but I went in after one oclock.  Tuesday July 1.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr  Tucker, Houghton and myself walked to Rockville after  school.  Wednesday 2.  I was in school all day and it rained all day in the evening  I was reading.  Thursday 3.  I was in school all day. It rained part cof the day and part  the sun was out. At four ocl c:k Eby, Tucn:ker, Del an son and  myself with some of the other went to vernon in Thompson's
waggon and from their we went to Hartford in the cares and  we had to stand the whole time. We arrived at Hartford  Hartford, Thursday, July 3, 1862.  at six oclock. We went to the Allen house and got a room  then we had supper after that we went to the Allen hall to  see the American Cousin played. We went to bed at twelve  oc 1 oc k.  Friday 4  I arose at six oclock and had breakfast shortly after. At  eight oclock Eby and myself went up on Main st. to see the  sunday-school procession and their was three thousand  children in the procession. We met near all the boys  there. Then Delanson and myself went to Prescot and Gages  and had our photographs taken and while we was there the  fireman's parade commenced but it was not much and before we  left Precots I  Hartford, Friday July 4, 1862.  saw Sarah Simonds and Sarah Spalding on the street and they  came up in the photographic gallery and we talked some time  then I asked them tco have some ice cream and they excepted  so we went to the south maids and had ice cream from there  went to the Al len house and I found Eby and we stayed in the  parlor and the girles played on the piano. About eleven  oclock we left the hotel and went with the girles to the  store and then to the place whare they stoiped then we went
to the Allen house and had our dinner and when we came from  dinner Hayden was wating for us in the reading room and we  went down to the park to see the balloons go off. They went  up at three oclock and was in sight three  Hartford, Friday July 4, 1862.  quarters of an hour and they came down nineteen miles from  Hartford. Their was three balloons. After supper Eby and  myself went down to the park to see the fire-work's and when  it was half over we met Sarah Simonds and Sarah Spalding and  after the fire work's we walked to the bridgEe] and we set  down till the crowd was out then we went to the theatre to  see the American cousin played and the girls was afraid that  they would be found out. It was out at twelve oclock then  we went with the girles to the place whare they stayed and  we tryed to open the door but could not get it open so we  knocked but noone came to the door so we took the girles  with us to the Allen House  Hartford, Friday July 4, 1862.  and we got a room for them till morning. The number of the  room is 53. We did not get to the Allen House till after  one 'crLk. After the qirles retired we went and got some  ale then we went to bed. The sun was out all day and it was  very warm.  Saturday 5.
We rose at six oclock and had breakfast at seven then we  went to the depot and on the road we met John Spalding and  we went to the depot and the girles was their but Sarah  Simonds missed the cars so she went with Sarah Spalding to  Enfield at half past nine. They left the Allen house at  half past seven and went to the house ware thEely stoped and  they had left the gas burn all night  Hartford, Saturday, July 5, 1862.  and the door unlocked but we did not know it. After the  girles had gone we went and got what clocks we wanted. We  had dinner at one oclock. We went to the depot after two.  We left Hartfotrd at three oclock but before we got a  quarter of a mile from the depot the engine and baggage car  run off the track and we had to wate two hous befor we  started. WE arrived at Vernon at six and their was four  stage loEalds for Rockville. We arrived at Ellington at  nine oclock. The sun was out all day but their was one  shour about three oclock.  Sundayv 6  I was in school in the fornoon to recite bible lesson. Iwas  in church  Ellington, Sunday July 6, 1862.  morning and afternoon. The thermometer was up to~ 95 deg.  In the evening I was over at Mifs Booths.
Monday 7.  I was in school all day.  Tuesday 8.  I was in school all day.  The sun was out all day.  The sun was out all day.  Wednesday 9.  I was in school all day. It rained in showers all day.  Thursday 10.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Friday 11.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Eby's  cousin came to day but left in the evening.  Ellington, Saturday, July 12th, 1862.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I wa  reading. I was in school in the evening. The sun was out  all day.  Sunday 13.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon. The sun was out all day.  Monday 14.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Tuesday 15.
I was in school all day. The sun was out till five oclock  then it showered till eight.  Wednesday 16.  I was in school all day. The sun was  Ellington, Wednesday July 16th, 1862  out all day. After tea Mr Tucker and myself went to see Mr  Hyde and he invited us to eat cherrys and we excepted and we  was on the tree about half an hour.  Thursday 17.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all1 day.  Friday 18.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 19.  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I was at  Mifs Booths, I was in school in the evening.  Sunday 20.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in  Ellington Sunday, July 20th, 1862.  school after church morning and afternoon and also after  tea. I was over at Mifs Booths in the evening and I missed  prayers.
Monday 21st.  I was in school all day. It rained all day.  Tuesday 22.  I was in school all day. It rained in the night.  Wednesday 23.  I was in school all day. It was clowdy all day and very  cold. I had my winter cloths on and had fire in the sitting  rocm0  Thursday 24.  I was in school all day. It rained part of the day and par  the sun was out.  Ellington, Friday, July 25, 1862  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 26.  I was in school in the fornoon to learn my peace for  examination in the afternoon. I stayed around the house. I  was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.  Sunday 27.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afterncoon. I was in school after  church.  Monday 29.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.
Tuesday 29.  I was in school all day. It rained in the afternoon.  Ellington Wednesday July 30  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. At five  oclock Eby and myself started for Ro:ckville and Eby had his  hair cut then we went to the turner Hall and got some lager  beer and from there to the confectionary and had a glass of  ale. We got to Ellington about seven oclock. Then we went  to the post office and had some porter. Thompson and Malen  Clark had a fight and Thompson had clark on the floor and  choked and cut his face and eye.  Thursday 31.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. Mr Hall  went to Hartford to-day.  Ellington, Friday Aug 1, 1862  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.  Saturday 2.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Olmsted,  Delanson and myself went up to the sawmill after dinner to  get thwortle berries. When we got to the mill we met a boy  going after berries sco we went alcong with him and we got  about four quarts. Then we went in swiming in the mill  pond. We did not get home till half past five. I was in  school in the evening.
Sunday 3.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon till tea time. I went  to meeting after tea. After prayers and  Ellington Sunday, Aug 3, 1862.  Mr Hall had taken the llight down stairs Olmsted came in my  room and we had a quart of milk, shugar and thwortle berries  to eat. The sun was out allI day.  Monday 4.  I was in school all day. The sun was very warm. After tea  I went with Mifs Booth to McNites up past Slates mill and we  did not get back till half past nine and Mr Hall did not say  any thing to me for missing prayers. My shirt was all wet  and my shoes was wet from the dew of the grass. I had a  splendid time. The sun was out all day and it was very  warm.  Tuesday 5.  I was in school all day. It was very warm in the school  room. The boys  Ellington Tuesday Aug 5, 1862  all had their coats off. After tea  Thursday 7
I went up to Mifs Boo:ths and she gave me some ice cream then  Eby, Mifs Simonds, Mifs Booth and myself walked up to see  the reservoir and we did not get back till dusk.  Wednesday 6  I was in school all day. The sun was very warm.  Friday 3.  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and it was  very warm.  Saturday 9.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby,  Olmsted, Delanson and myself went up to the pond and we  picked a basket of black-berries  Ellington, Saturday Aug 9th, 1862  then we went in swimming. We did not get back till after  the boys had tea but we had ours. It rained very hard after  we came back. I was in school in the evening.  Sunday 10.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternooin. I was in school in the  afternoon till tea time. I went to sundayschool concert  after tea. In the evening Eby and myself went walking. It  was very warm.  Monday 11th.
The first day of examination and their was strangers in to  hear  Ellington, Monday Aug 11th 1862  us. It was a very warm day. In the evening I went with  Mifs Booth to see Mifs Dunnem the lady that Mr Hall promised  to marrie but did not and I did not get home till after  pr ayers.  Tuesday 12th.  The second day of examination. Bodsworth, Kings and Felix  left this morning. IN the fornoon B. Willson and some  ladies was in to hear us. In the evening Warner and muyself  went to call on Mr Hyde and we stayed till after nine oclock  and coming up street we met N. Lindley and Elmer so we went  up to school and Newt and myself went up and made a call on  Mifs Booth  Ellington, Tuesday, Aug 12th 1862  and we stayed till half past eleven. When we came home the  door was locked so we went to the window and went in and Mr  Hall was in the kitchen and he was very cross. This evening  while I was out the boy werEe) throwing apples in the halls  and Mr Hall went to our room and Eby threw an apple at his  head but he thought it was one of the boy and he had a fuss  with him. The sun was out all day.  Wednesday 13th
I left Ellington in the morning for Hartford and we stayed  there till three oclock then we left on the boat and  arrivfed at New York the next morning  New York, Thursday Aug 14th  I was in New York all day and we stoped at the St. Nicholas  Hotel. In the evening S Hubley, Mifs Dougherty, Sue  Redsecker, Sam, Felix, Aunt and Uncle Felix and myself went  to Nibloes garden. In the afternoon we went in Barnum's  musium. I went to bed about eleven. The sun was out all  day.  Friday 15th  We left New York.:: at seven for Saratoga. We had to stop at  Troy from one oclock till five for the trane. We was going  on the boat up the hudson but the boat was brooken so we wen  up the Hudson on the cars. We arrived at Saratoga about  seven oclock and we went  Saratoga, Friday, Aug 15th 1862  to a private house and Aunt Sarah did not like it and I  started off and got rooms at C'ongress Hall but we had to  take rooms two squares from the hotel and dine at Congress  Hall and we had to pay three dollars a day. The sun was out  all day. We stayed in the house all evening.  Saturday 16th
In the morning we all went to breakfast at eight oclock then  we went to the Congress Springs and the Empire springs and  we went to the high rock spring. In the afternoon we went  to see the Indians and aunt Sue bought Delanson and myself a  cane. IN the evening we left Congress  Saratoga Saturday Aug 16th  Hall and boarded ware we roomed in the evening Sue, Mifs  Dougherty Aunt Felix and myself went up to Congress Hall and  Sue and myself went up to the United States Hotel and went  to the ball room to see them dance. We camEe3 back about  eleven oclock. The sun was out all day.  Sunday 17th  I got up at seven oclock and went to the spring and got a  drink then I took a walk and came back and had breakfast. I  stayed in the house all day. In the evening I went to  church. The sun was out all day.  Niagara Monday, Aug 18th 1862.  I left Saratoga in the mcrning about seven toclock for  Niagara and we had to stop a Utica on hour and a half. We  had dinner at the depot and I walked around the town. We  left at hal f past tone and arr ived at Niagara at eleven  tottlotk. We stotped at the tcataratct Htouse. The sun was tout  all day. I was in the tcars all day.  Tuesday 19th
I arose at seven and Delanson and myself went to the fall  and we was the first Of our party to see them. We had  breakfast at seven oclock  Niagara Tuesday Aug 19th 1862  After breakfast we all went down to the fall's and coming  back we stoped in an Indian store and we bought some things.  From there we went on Goat Island and first to the fall's on  the Island and from there to the cave of the winds and from  there we went to the tower and from there we went around the  Island and then we went and had our dinner about three  ocICck. After dinner we got carriages and crossed the  suspension bridge and went into Canida and we went to the  musEelum. and we went under table rock  Niagara Tuesday Aug 19th 1862  and under horse shoe fall's on the C:anida side and I got all  wet and Sue and A. Dougherty werEe) the only ladies that  went with us under the fall's. We had to pay three dollers  and a half tole to cross the bridge. Their was ten in our  party. The steps that go down to the water on the American  side are 291 in nomber. The suspension bridge is 800 feet  long and 260 feet from the surfice of the water and the  water is 250 feet deep from the bridge to the fall's. The  company consisted of Mrs Hubley, Mi fs Redsecker and  Douger ty,
Mr Felix & Wife & Son, Delanson, S. Dougherty, Geo. Griffen  and a gentleman from Buffalo.  Wednesday 20th  We had breakfast at eight. We hired two hacks and the first  place we went was the Whirl Pool and we went to the waters  edge and their was 250 steps to get down. Then we went to  the Devil's hole and the blugeay run. We went down to the  Waters edgEeJ and I went part way in the cave. On the rock  at Devils hole in the year of 1812 their was 250 British  soldiers thrown down the precpice by the French and Indians.  From ther we  Niagara, Wednesday Aug 20th  went to the Hights and oppositEe] is Brocks monument. From  there we went three miles in the country to an Indian  villiage and then came to the hotel and had our dinner at  three oclock. I slept the rest of the afternoon. In the  evening we went to the Indian stores. The sun was out all  day.
Thursday 21st  I left Niagara at seven oclock and we arrived at Buffalo  about ten oclock and I went around to see the place till two  oclock then we had dinner at the American  Buffalo, Thursday Aug 21st 1862  Hotel. After dinner Sue, Ann, Mifs Dougherty, Mr. Wicks,  Delanson and myself went up street and we went in the  catholic hospital. When we came to the hotel the rest of  the crowd had gone to the depot and we had to hurry to meet  the cars. We left Buffalo at six oclock and it commenced to  rain as we left. We was in the cars till twelve oclock at  night then we stoped at Elmira till four in the morning and  we stayed in the depot.  Friday 22.  We left Elmira at four oclock in the morning and we stoped  Middletown Friday Aug 22, 1862.  at Williamsport to change cars and we took breakfast there.  We did not get to Harrisburg till two oclock and we left at  four for home. I stayed in the house in the evening. The  sun was out all day but it rained in the evening.  Saturday 23
I was in the house in the fornoon in the afternoon I took  Aunt Sarah ou to the farm and I was out at the farm till  dark. It rained in the morning but cleared off by noon.  Sunday 24th  I got up at eight oclock and had breakfast at nine oclock.  I went to methodist church in the morning. I went to sunday  Middletown Sunday Aug 24, 1862  school. In the evening I went to Luthern church. The sun  was out all day.  Monday 25th  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day.  Tuesday 26th  I was out at the farm all day picking chips in the woods and  father was at Phila. I had the horse at the farm. The sun  was out all day. I went up town in the evening with J.  Shaffer and we went to Wiesttings then we went and had some  ice cream then we went home.  Wednesday 27th  I was out at the farm by six oclock and picked apples then I  picked  Middletown Wednesday Aug 27  chips the rest of the day. I walked from the farm home.  The sun was cut all day.
Thursday 28.  I was out at the farm all day picking chips. The sun was  out all day. I stayed home in the evening.  Friday 29th  I was around the office all fornoon. The sun was out all  day.  Saturday 30th  I was around the house in the fornoon. In the afternoon I  was out at the farm making sider and it wrained about three  oc 1 ock. I came home about dark.  Middletown, Sunday Aug 31st/62  I got up at eight and had breakfast at nine. I went to  church in the morning and to sunday school. It rained in  the evening.  Monday Sept. 1st.  I stayed around the house all day. The sun was out all day.  Tuesday 2st  In the fornoon I helpt Sol. to hall boards. In the  afternoon I stayed at the office. The sun was out all day.  Wednesday 3th  Their was frost this morning. Father and mysel f started for  iCalbrocok about eight oclock to tend a sale and we arrived  Middletown Wed, Sept 3th 1962
there about eleven then looked at the cattle and then went  to dinner. The sale begun at one and father bought two  cows. The sun was out all day.  Thursday 4th  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day.  Friday 5th  I stayed at the office all day and at three oclock I went up  town with the band to the square to form a home gard and we  marched.  Saturday 6th  I was out at the farm in the fornoon and in the afternoon I  was home. In the evening I was at the market house to form  a company and we organized  Middletown, Sunday Sep. 7, 1862  I went to Elizabethtown on sunday with the two horse  carriage and I came home in the evening.  Monday B  I was around the office all day.  Tuesday 9.  I went to Harrisburg with the horse and waggon and we  traded. I was at Harrisburg all day.  Wednesday 10).  I was home all day. The sun was out all day.
Thursday 11.  I was out at the farm triming locust trees and Capp came out  in the afternoon and I  Middletown Thursday Sep. 11, 1862  came in with him. In the evening I drilled.  Friday 12  I stayed around the office and cleaned fathers pistols. In  the evening the cavalry drilled.  Saturday 13.  I went to Harrisburg horse back to trade horses and I took  our horse to the groave yard and I took an other horse. I  came home about two oclock.  Sunday 14th  I went to church in the morning. I took a nap in the  afternoon. I stayed at home in the evening.  Middletown Mond, Sept 10th 1862  I was around the house all day. At ten oclock the cavelry  company met at the hall and they adjourned till too oclock  to start for Harrisburg but they did not get off till three  oclock and they had sixty men but the gcovener did not take  them so they came home in the night. Father was captin. The  sun was out allI day.  Tuesday 16th
I was home all day and I stayed at the office.  Wednesday 17.  I was out at the farm thrashing all day in the evening I  went to town.  Middletown Thursday Sept 18th 1862  I was around the house in the fornoon. At four cclcck I  started for Lancaster and I stayed there till friday night.  Friday 19th  I left Lancaster at six in the evening for Columbia and I  stayed till Saturday.  Saturday 20th  I left Columbia at noon for home. In the afternoon I worke  around home.  Sunday 21st  I stayed home all day. I was not well1. The sun was out al  day.  Monday 22st  I was out at the farm all  Middletown, Monday Sept 22st/62  day picking apples and betatersEpo'tatoes3. The sun was out  all day.  Tuesday 23th  l  d
I was halling boards in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was  getting ready for school. The sun was out all day.  Wednesday 24th  I was packing my things for school. I left home at seven  oclock and I stayed at Ebys till one oclock in the night  then we went to the depot and the train did not leave till  after three oclock. The train was detained on the road so  we did not get in New York till twelve the next day.  New York, Thursday 25th 1862  I was on the cars from three in the morning till twelve at  noon. It was very cold in the cars and there was frost. We  stoped at the Merchants Hotel. In the afternoon Eby,  Delanson and myself went to Barnums. In the evening we went  to Niblows garden. The sun was out all day.  Friday 26th  In the fornoon I went out shoping. After dinner we started  for the boat and we left at four oclock. We did not get in  Hartford till the next day at noon on account of the fog.  The sun was out all day.  Ellington Saturday Sept. 27, 1862  I was on the boat till noon. I went from the boat tco the  depot and I arrived in Ellington about six oclcock.  Sunday 28.
I went to church mcrning and afternoon. I was n school in  the afternoon. In the evening Mr Kapp went away. It rained  all day.  Monday 29.  I was in school all day. I was in school in the evening.  Tuesday 30.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday, Oct  I was in school all day  Ellington, Wednesday Oct 1, 1862  Clowdy all day with rain.  Thursday 2.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 3  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday 4.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I went  with the boy for apples at Bissels. Eby and myself had a  large carpet bag full. When we came back Eby, Kapp and  myself went to Rockville with chapmans team and I got  meashered for  Ellington Saturday Oct 4th 1862
a pare of pants. We did not get back till after tea. I was  in school in the evening.  Sunday 5.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson, I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon.  Monday 6.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 7.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 8  I was in school all day. In the evening I was in society  Ellington Wed. Oct 8, 1862.  After society Mrs Hall gave me a whiskey punch and I went to  bed and tooka swet but it did not do my cold any good.  Thursday 9.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed  out on account of a cold. I wrote part and slept part of  the time.  Friday 10.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday 11.
I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I read.  In the evening I was in school.  Ellington Sunday, Oct 12, 1862  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lEelsson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in Es~chool in  the afternoon. I was reading in the evening.  Monday 13  I was in school all day and in the evening it rained all  day.  Tuesday 14.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 15.  I got up at four oclock and had breakfast at six. Eby,  Kapp, Delanson and mEylself started for Hartford at six  Ellington, Wednesday Oct 15, 1862  oclock with Smiths horse and waggon. We arrived in Hartford  at nine oclock. We got our cloths and after I was through  with my buisness we all went to the horse shoe. We left  Hartford at five oclock and arrived in Ellington at eight  Thursday 16.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 17.
I was in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday 18.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon we went  chestnuting. In the evening I was in school.  Ellington Sunday, Oct 19, 1862.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon. In the evening I read.  Monday 20.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 21.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 22.  I was in school all day and I was in society in the evening.  Thursday 23.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Ellington Friday Oct 24th 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday 25.  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I was in my  room. I was in school in the evening.
Sunday 26  I was in school in the morning. I was in church morning and  afternoon. I was inschool in the afternoon. I was in my  room in the evening writing.  Monday 27.  I was in school all day and in school in the evening.  Tuesday 28.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Ellington, Wednesday, Oct 29, 1862  I was in school all day in the evening I was in society.  Thursday 30  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 31  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday Nov. 1.  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Dimond and  myself went to the cider press. I was in school in the  evening.  Sunday 2  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson.I  was in church morning and afternoon. In the evening I went  to meeting to hear Mr Tucker speak.
Ellington, Monday, Nov 3th 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 4.  I was in school all day and in the evening. After school in  the afternoon Hale, Kapp and myself went to the cideEr]  press and we got what we could drink and I filled a bottle.  Wednesday 5.  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society.  I was writing letter after the boys had gone to bed.  Thursday 6.  I was in school all day and in the evening. I was writing  after the boy had gone to bed.  Ellington Friday, Nov 7th 186:2.  I was in school all day and in the evening. It snowed all  day.  Saturday 8.  The sleighs were out this morning but it commenced to rain  about noon and spoltEspoiled) the sleighing, but it snowed  in the night again. I was in school in the fornoon in the  afternoon I stayed around the house. I was in school in the  evening.  Sunday 9.
I was in school in the morning noon and afternoon. I was in  church morning and afternoon. I was writing in the evening.  It rained all fornoon and it changed to snow in the  afternoon and it was snooing in the evening.  Ellington, Monday, Nov. 10, 1862.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 11th  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 12th  I was in school all day in the evening I was in society and  King and myself furnished apples.  Thursday 13th  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 14th  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Ellington, Saturday, Nov 15th 1862  I was not in school today. Gay, Spalding, Houghton and  myself were carriers at a fuhneral at Mr Hydes and it was a  little girle from Hartford. The funeral was at ten oclock.  In the afternoon Hale and myself went to the cider--press and  from there we wrode tco the grist mill on Mr Pecks wagjon. I  was in school in the evening.  Sunday 16th
I was in school in the morning. I was at church morning and  afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon. I stayed in  the house in the evening.  Ellington, Monday, Nov. 17th 1862  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 18th  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 19th  I was in school all day and in the evening I was in society.  Thursday 20th  I was in school all day and in the evening. I received $50  this evening from father.  Wriday 21st  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday 22  I went to Hartford to get some clothing. I got dinner at  the Allyn House. I came back in the evening. I was in  school in the evening.  Ellington, Sunday, Nov 23, 1862  I was in school in the morning and afternoon. I was in  church morning and afternoon. I went to: meeting in the  evening.
Monday 24.  I was in school all day and in the evening. Kapp was sent  in the house to day.  Tuesday 25  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 26  I was in school all day. In the evening we did not have any  soc iety.  Thursday 27. Thanksgiving  I was reading in all morning till eleven o'clock then we all  went to church. We did not get dinner till three oclock and  we did not leave the table till after five oclock.  Ellington, Thursday, Nov 27th, 1862  Thanksgiving  About seven oclock Mifs Simonds and myself started for Mr  Hydes to see Mary but she was not home so we walk)ed on  past Mr Hydes to Dr. Pease theEn) we went the back way home.  We went to bed at nine.  Friday 28th.  I was around the house all day. In the evening Gay and  Emyself) got permision to go to Mr Hydes and he got troope  and I went fcor Anna Gunn but she had gcone before I got  there. When I went George Thomson and sister and Anna G3unn  was there and after I was there a short time G~ay Troop came  in. Mifs Hyde thoughEt) it was
Ellington, ThursdayEFriday), Nov 28, 1862.  a surprise party. We stayed till eleven oclock. I went  home with Anna 3unn and when we got to the house she was  1 oc ked out.  Saturday 29  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby and  myself went to the cider mill. I was in school in the  evening.  Sunday 30  I was in school morning and afternoon. I was in church  morning and afternoon. I was reading in the evening.  Monday Dec 1.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 2  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Ellington, Wed. Dec 3th 1862.  I was in school all day and in society in the evening and I  was President. It commenced to snow afEblout four oclock  and was snowing when I went to bed.  Thursday 4th  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 5th
After breakfast Gay and myself went to Morricys pond to see  if the ice would bare and it did but was very rough. I was  in school all day and in the evening.  Saturday 6  I got up at four oclock and wrote three letters and wrote in  my .jornal. It snowed all night and the snow  Ellington Saturday, Dec. 6th 1862  blew all day. I was in school in the fornoon. I was in  school in the evening.  Sunday 7.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon and in school in the  afternoon. I went to meeting in the conference room in the  evening.  Monday 8  I was in school all day. After school all the boys went to  Morrisys ditch to skate. In the evening we all went to the  conference room to hear a Jew lecture on their customs and I  took Mifs Mary & Elen Hyde home and I just got back in time  for prayers. Sleighing is good.  Ellington, Tuesday, Dec. 9th 1662  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Wednesday 10
I was in school all day and I was in society in the evening.  Thursday 11.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Friday 12.  I was not in school to-day for I had a bad cold.  Saturday 13  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Eby, Kapp  and myself went to Rockville with Chapmans horse. We stayed  all afternoon and Eby was tite drinking lager beer. I was  in school in the evening to learn bible lesson.  Ellington Sunday, Dec 14th 1862.  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I  was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the  afternoon to recite barnes notes. I went to meeting in the  evening and I went home with Mifs Mary Hyde.  Monday 15.  I was in school all day and in the evening.  Tuesday 16  I was in school in the evening and all day.  Wednesday 17.  I was in school all day. The last society this term so we  had some extras. We had oysters cake, candy for supper and  the town schcolars was invited in.
Ellington, Wednesday, Dec 17, 1862  After supper some of the boys sang. I was in society in the  evening some of the boys gave their fare well speachs and  others volintiered the last society this term.  Thursday 18  Delanson is in bed with the chills and I stayed with him all  day. I studied in my room and when it was time to recite I  went and recite my lesson then come back.  Friday 19.  I was in my room with Delanson all day but I went out to  recite. I was in my room in the evening.  Ellington, Saturday, Dec 20, 1862  I was in my room all day with Delanson. In the evening I  was in school.  Sunday 21.  I was in school and church as usual. I was in meeting in  the evening.  Monday 22.  The first day of examination. We  the fornoon. In the afternoon we  notes, Readers gide and spelling.  and the room was crowded. We did  nine oclock. Kapp and King broke  Ellington, Tuesday, Dec 23, 1862  had our usual lessons in  had bible lesson, barnes  In the evening we spoke  not go to bed till after  a desk in the evening.
The second day of examination. Eby and Kapp start for home  this morning. In the evening Gay, Spalding, Clark and  myself went to a surprise party alt] Troops and there was  thirteen couple of us. We did not leave till after eleven  cclock, and we had a splendid time.  Wednesday 24.  I did not do any thing but lofe all day.  Thursday 25.  In the fornoon I got ready to go to Hartford. It was clowdy  all day. We did not have dinner till one oclock and we had  turkey. I got Chapmans horse and carriage about two oclock  and went to  Ellington, Thursday, Dec 25th 1862  Hydes after Mary. We started for Hartford at a half past  two and at half past four. We stoped at the United States.  At eleven oclock Gay & Mifs Thompson Mifs Hyde and myself  went to the Beethoven Society and we got resreved seats in  the family circle. We saw the Ellington boys. It lasted  four hours. We went to bed at twelve oclock.  Friday 26.  I got up at seven and went to the drawing room but the  girles was not up yet. We went to breakfast at eight and we  left Hartford at ten and we did ncot get tco Ellington till  two in the afternon and we had splendid fun on the road.
Ellington, Friday, Dec 26, 1862  We took the girles home and then Gay and myself came home  and got our dinner.  Saturday 27.  I did not do anything but lofe. In the evening I was  reading.  Sunday 28.  I was in church morning and afternoon and we had to recite  the first Psalm. I went to meeting in the evening and had  singing after meeting and I went with Mary.  Monday 29.  I was in the house all day reading. In the evening I went  to Mr Hydes and Mary and myself played backgammon from seven  till eleven  Ellington, Monday, Dec. 29th 1862  and she beat me four out of six games and we had apples to  eat. I got home near twelve oclock.  Tuesday 30.  I was in the house all day reading. I was in the house all  evening reading. It commenced to snow in the evening. The  pigs was out and Jerry could not get them in so we helped  him.  Wednesday 31st.
I did not get up till eight oclock in the morning. I was  reading all day. In the evening Mifs Simonds, Field,  Delanson, Marrett, Rogers and myself made molasses candy and  we pulled it till after nine oclock. We had prayers after  nine and all the boys went to bed but me and  Ellington, Wednesday, Dec 31st, 1862  Mr Hall was in the sittingroom. I stayed till eleven then I  came to my room and Gay had a fire so I read till the new  year commenced then I went to bed. It snowed all day and  stoped in the evening, so it snowed one day and night. The  snow is about one foot deep and splendid sleighing. The  boys that are here this vacation are Rogers, Gay, Field,  Diamon, Marrett, Delanson.
