Transcript
Ellington Apr. Wednesday 24, 1861    We got up at six and had breakfast at seven. After breakfast I went up to Mifs Booths and stayed their nearly all fornoon. After dinner I stayed at the house. In the eavning all the larg boys went to the sewing society and did not get back till ten oclock. The sun was out all day and it was the warmest day we had this summer but it rained in the eavning and thundered. We did not to bed til ten oclock.    Thursday 25    Warner and my-self went up on the mountain after breakfast to shoot mark with pistols and was gone all fornoon we shot seventeen lodes. When we got back about noon a fire broke out in a house across from Patridges. I was the first one on the roof it did not burn mutch. In the afternoon I went with Warner to his Uncles we was gone all afternoon. In the eavning I lofed around town. The sun was out all day.    Friday 26    In the fornoon I was around the house and up at Mifs Booths. In the afternoon Warner and my-self went up in his room and read all afternoon. In the eavning I stayed around the house and went to bed at ten oclock. The sun was out all day.    Saturday 27    In the fornoon Warner, Gray and myself went to court down at Gunns we was their til two o’clock we came home and got our dinner after dinner I washed and in the eavning I stayed in the house. The sun was out all day.


November 28, 1860  I was at S.Q. Platner's funeral in Unionville on the 28th and he died on the 26th of November 1860 aged 16 years.    November 28, 1860  I came to Ellington in September 12, 1860.  R. I. Young
  December 4, 1860  I was in school and it snowed all day and night. The first snow we had this winter.    December 5, 1860  I was in school it snowed in the morning but cleared off by ten o'clock.    December 6, 1860  I was in school. Clear and cold. Snow six inches deep and good sledding.    December 7, 1860  I was in school and snowed in the morning but cleared off in a short time but kept cloudy.    December 8, 1860  I was in school in the morning learning my peace for examination. In the afternoon the school boys was skating and Gray, Warner J. Lindley and Covel fell in and got wet.
December 9, 1860  I was in church in the morning, afternoon and in the evening.    December 10, 1860  I was in school. Clear in the morning but in the afternoon it snowed and then rained the remainder of the day.    December 11, 1860  I was in school clear and cold snow on the ground from the first snow this winter.    December 12, 1860  I was in school. Cloudy in the morning and in the afternoon it snowed.    December 13, 1860  I was in school. Cloudy and snowed in the morning, afternoon clear and cold.    December 14, 1860  I was in school. Clear and cold. In the afternoon we was left out of school at half past three o'clock and went to skate on the pond back of town.      December 15, 1860  I was in school in the morning and was studying my piece for the examination. And in the afternoon we went skating on the pond at the mill.    December 16, 1860  I was in the house all day with a sore throat and Delanson the same he was in bed nearly all day.    December 17, 1860  I was in school. Clear and warm. Examination commenced twenty minutes before eight and continued till evening.  I had to speak. In the evening at half past six seventeen of the boys spoke their was seven or eight lads in the room.    December 18, 1860  I was in school. Clear and warm. The examination was in the same books.
Dec. 18, 1860   But in different parts. In the morning there was no strangers in [in] the afternoon there was two strangers Mifs. Brockway and Mr. Fessenden and after they was all through the later spoke to the school then school left out after supper ten of the boys went skating on the pond at the mill.    Dec. 19, 1860  First day of vacation. I stayed about the house in the morning to see the boys start for home in the afternoon. Gray Warner, Coy, Covel, Young, Kellogg went skating on the pond. Cloudy all day but not cold.    Dec. 20, 1860  The second day of vacation only seven boys hear. Rained all night all day stayed in the house with a sore throat and cold.    Dec. 21, 1860  The third day of vacation. I stayed in the house sick with a sore throat Clear and warm.    Dec. 22, 1860  The fourth day of vacation sick all day and stayed in the house, rained in the morning in the afternoon it hailed and then turned to snow till evening and cleared up cold.    Dec. 23, 1860  The fifth day of vacation. I stayed in the house with my throat all day. I did not go to church. Clear and warm all day.    Dec. 24, 1860  The sixth day of vacation. The boys went to Hartford all but me. I wrote letters all day. The boys came home about dark. Clear and cold. Mary and I played checkers she beat one game and I the other.
  December 25, 1860  I lay in bed till eight o'clock and then got up and we had prayers then breakfast and we had oysters. Then we went skating on the swamp below the church, we stayed there till noon. We had beefsteak for dinner after dinner I got my skates sharpened in the evening we had our regular supper in the evening we was in the sitting room.    December 26, 1860  The eighth day of vacation. Mr. Hall was away and did not come back till the next day. Gray and Coye had a quarrel and Warner and Mary stopped them. In the evening we played different plays but I was sick.    December 27, 1860  The ninth day of vacation. I layed in bed till eight o'clock. After breakfast I went down town to loaf and after dinner I got sick. I slept in number five.    December 28, 1860  The tenth day of vacation. We loafed around the house and Gray and Hawkins and myself walked up to see if belches pond was froze fit for skating but it was not. I could hardly walk home I was so weak. Clowdy all day.    December 29, 1860  The eleventh day of vacation. I stayed about the house all day and fixed my closet. The boys went skating in the morning and afternoon and Warner and Covel broke in after the boys came back. The girls gave us cakes.      December 30, 1860  The twelfth day of vacation. I was at church in the morning after church I went to Sunday school. I came home and got dinner and started for church in the evening. We stayed in the house and had fun.
Dec. 31, 1860 Monday  The thirteenth day of vacation, snowed in the night and good slaying. In the forenoon I beet Mary Dob. Playing checkers I had four kings on the board. I loafed around the house all day. Clear and cold. The last day of the their was not anything going on. In the evening we made molasses candy the last thing in the year.    January 1, 1861  I did not get up til near eight o’clock and did not get breakfast til half-past eight after breakfast I stayed around the house till after dinner after we got our dinner. Thompson took Gray, Warner, Coye, my brother and myself to Rockville after we got their we went through the cloth (Rockville mill) mill after that Warner and myself had some sides then I had my hair cut after that we went to the saloon and had some more sides then we started for home we left Gray behind once we got home safe. The day was clear and the snow was thawing some. We went to Rockville in a slay. The last day of vacation.    Wednesday 2, 1861    The first day of school and it did not commence til nine o’clock and in the morning their was only nine boys in school we did not do much. Clear and the sun was out and thawed some in the afternoon, left out sooner than usually and we went skating on the swamp.
  Thursday January 3, 1861  I was in school but the boys was not all here. It snowed last night and kept on all day in the evening stopped snowing but cloudy. We have had snow from Dec. 4 and good sledding snow.    Friday 4  I was in school in the morning till ten o'clock then we went to church in the afternoon. We was in school till two o'clock then we went to church again. It is the day appointed for fasting and prayers by the President of the United States. Snowed hard all day. We were in school in the evening.    Saturday 5  I was in school in the morning. We had speaking and compositions in the afternoon, I played cards with Clark Kent and Covel. After that I washed. The sun was out and good sledding. In the evening we had Bible lessons to learn.    Sunday January 6, 1861  The sun was out all day, warm thawing. I was in church in the morning and evening and afternoon.    Monday 7  I was in school all day. Cloudy in the morning about ten o'clock it commenced to rain but stopped before noon but cloudy. Today is my birthday. Today I am seventeen years old.    Tuesday 8  I was in school all day. The sun was out near all the time. Froze in the afternoon. I had the headache in the morning.    Wednesday 9  I was in school all day. Cloudy in the morning, in the afternoon it snowed. Some of the boys went skating after school. Cloudy with snow all night.
Thursday Jan. 10 1861  I was up at half past five and made two coal fires for Mr. Hall. Cloudy with snow all day.    Friday 11  I was in bed all day sick with the cold. Clear all day the son out.    Saturday 12  I layed in bed till eight o’clock then I got up but stayed in the house with the cold. Cloudy and snowed all day hard.    Sunday 13  Clear son out. I was in the house all day with the cold and a coff. I did not get to church that day. Hall read to those that stayd at home in the morning in the afternoon I had my lesson in the barns notes in the evening I wrote. In the morning the wether was 25 below zero, 25 degrees below zero in the afternoon it was 5 degrees below zero.    Monday Jan. 14 1861  I was in school all day. In the morning the wether was five degrees below zero the son was out in the morning in the afternoon it snowed hard.    Tuesday 15  I was in school all day. Clowdy all day but warm. We have snow ever since the fourth of Dec. I was in school in the evening.    Wednesday 16  I was in school all day. Raining all day and froze on the trees in the afternoon thunderstorm and pord down rain. I was in society in the evening and Chapman treated the society with apples.    Thursday 17  I was in school all day. Clowdy all day and warm we let our fire go out it was so warm. I was in school in the eavening.
  Friday Jan. 18, 1861  I was in school all day. Cloudy all day but did not snow or rain. Good sledding now. We left the fire go out in the school house it was so warm.          Saturday 19  I was in school in the morning. In the afternoon the whole school got a sled and we went to a hill to slide but it was too soft so we got at snowballing going home. It was warm the sun was out. The snow was thawing. We went up past the high school.    Sunday 20  In the morning I recited a Bible lesson then I went to church. After I went again after church we had a lesson in barnes notes. In the evening I went to a Sunday school concert. The sun was out all day but did not thaw much. The evening was clear and the moon was out bright.    Monday Jan. 21, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day but it was windy and did not thaw. I was in school in the evening.    Tuesday 22  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day but it was windy and did not thaw in the shade. Coye is very sick. I was in school in the evening.    Wednesday 23  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the morning the weather was one degree below zero. In the after-noon it thawed. In the evening I was in society we had fun. Gray was president. We was going to Rockville but could not get horses enough.    Thursday 24  I was in school all day. It snowed all day the deepest we had. I was in school in the evening. It stopped in the evening snowing.
Friday Jan 25 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out part of the time but most of the time clowdy. Thawed all day. This morning we had cod- fish balls for breakfast. At four o’clock in the afternoon Edward Coye died in the front chamber at Mr. Hall’s family school he died with the nervous fever he was about fourteen years old. He had no friends hear when he died. His mother was in Missouri.    Saturday 26  I was in school in the morning and it snowed in the morning. In the afternoon I dressed for Coyes funeral. The services commenced at two o’clock at the house of Mr. Hall. Those that carried him their names are Hayden, Hawkins, Warner, Gray, Chapin, W. Lindley, Chapman. Johnson, Clark, Lewis, Thompson, and Young. We carried him to the grave yard. We came home in the same way we went down to the burying ground.    There was not any of his friends at the funeral. Mr Fessenden spoke a few words that was all they did for him. The nurse told one of the boys that he had the Typhoid fever but Mr. Hall said he had the nervous fever. He did not see his parents for over two years. He was with me in the two weeks vacation. Coye went to bed Monday the 21st and died Friday the 25th. The boys set in the seting room during the services.    Sunday 27  In the morning about eight o’clock it commenced to snow and stoped about ten o’clock and the son came out and the snow thawed. I was in church twice I had to put on my rubber boots the snow was so deep. I went to meeting in the evening. Mr. Hall received a dispatch from some of Coyes friends the first he received since his death.
Monday Jan 28, 1861  I was in school all day. It commenced to snow about eight o’clock and snowed til four o’clock. I was in school in the evening.    Tuesday 29  I was in school and it commenced to snow about eight o’clock and snowed all day by spells in the eavening it got windy. I was in school in the eavening.    Wednesday 30  I was in school all day. The sun came out by spells and it blowed all day till five o’clock then it stopped but was very cold. I was in society in the eavening. Warner was taken out of school in the morning and he had to take his book out he was fooling in school Wilson told Mr. Hall and he had Chapin, Chapman in his room in the eavening.    Thursday Jan. 31, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day but freezing all the time. I went out of school before it was out and went and practiced on the piano after that Gowdy. Chapin and myself went to Mr. Hall’s lot and we each had a pistol and we shot them off and then we came home around the ? Booths. I was in school in the eavening. After prayers Delanson stayed to speak to Mr. Hall on the subject religion.    Friday Feb. 1, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day it thawed we had the windows in the school room. Good sleighing I was in school in the eavening I was reading a paper and Brown told me to put it away I told him I did not feel like studing he told me to go in the house. I went in to the stove in the entry up stairs.
Friday Feb 1, 1861  In the evening it commenced to rain and rained all night.    Saturday 2  I was in school in the morning. We had composition and declimation. I had the former. In the afternoon D. Lindley and myself went up to Mosleys and we had apples, cider, nuts and popcorn. I drank two goblets of cider and when we started for home we had our pockets filled with apples and popcorn. When we started we crossed the fields but coming home we came on the road. We did not get back till five o'clock. Foggy all day and the water run in the streets. The thermometer was up to 40 degrees. I was in school in the morning and had a bible lesson to learn.      Sunday February 3, 1861  I was in church in the morning and afternoon and in the evening to prayer meeting. Mr. Kellogg preached in the day time and in the evening he spoke about California and he is a home missionary. The streets was covered so the boys could skate all around town. When we went to church some of the boys fell. Did not thaw at all. The sun was out and not as warm as the day before. After the sun had gone down, the boys commenced to skate in the streets.    Monday 4  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. The boys was skating in the streets and in Halls yard. In the evening the boys went in a field back of Mrs. Booths and the girls was skating. In the evening Mrs. Booths was on the ice. It did not thaw. I was in school in the evening. Mrs. Upson and Mary and Sophia had skates on.
Tuesday Feb. 5 1861  I was in school all day till three o’clock. Then the whole school went skating down on the march and we stayed till five o’clock. The skating was splendid. The teachers were along. The sun was out all day. It thawed some. We could skate in the streets. I was in school in the eavening till eight o’clock.    Wednesday 6  The sun was out all day and thawed some but we could skate in the streets and the sleighing is good. I was in school all day. The boys went down on the marsh after school. In the evening the boys and girls went down on the sleigh and they had a fire so they could see. I was in society in the eaveneing and we elected Sisson for president and we voted for other officers and we maid so mutch nois that Mr Hall came in and asked Sisson who he called to order he told him no one. Mr Hall told us he was not fit for the chair and he gave several of the other boys a raking. And in the other society G. Kent was sent to bed and Mr. Hall told him he should not get up til he told him to. Mr Hall would not let us go skating in the eaveneing so we raised cain in society.      Thursday February 7, 1861  I was in school all day. IN the morning it snowed a while then it turned to rain and then the sun came out and after that it got clowdy and the wind commenced to blow and snowed for half an hour and it blowed all night and rocked the building and it was cold all night I had two shalls and my coat in the bed and had fire in the entry and the water froze in the kitchen.
Thursday February 7, 1861  Kent was in bed all day and was fed on bread and water. Hall sent him to bed for making a noise in the society. Mr. Lindley was here today. I got a half of a bushel of apples in the evening of Chapman and had to pay 40 cents.  I weigh 137 pounds and 5 feet 9 inches tall when I was 17 years 1 month old.    Friday 8  The sun was out all day. The wind blew all day. I was in school all day. The thermometer in the morning was down to 22 degrees below zero, At noon it was down to 10 degrees below zero.    Saturday 9  The sun was out all day. I was in school in the morning and I had declimation. After dinner, Mr. Hall gave us apples after that we went skating on the pond and did not get back till four o'clock. Washed in my room. The thermometer was below zero and I was in school in the evening.    Sunday February 10, 1861  I was in church in the morning and afternoon and at the Sunday school concert in the evening. Foggy all day and sloppy.    Monday 11  I was in sc
Wednesday Feb. 13, 1861  The sun was out all day. The snow is all gone but the street before the school- house was ice so we could skate. We did not go in school til nine o’clock. I was in society in the eavening and Chapman treated the society with apples.    Thursday 14  The sun was out all day. I was in school all day. It was warm. I was in school in the eavening. In the eavening it got clowdy.    Friday 15  In the morning it hailed and it turned to rain and rained all day. I was in school all day. I was in school in the eavening.    Saturday 16  I was in school in the morning. The sun was out all day. In the afternoon D. Lindley and my self went to a lady down town. In the eavening I was in school I had a bible lesson to learn.    Sunday Feb. 17, 1861  The sun was out all day. The ground thawed. I was in school in the morning to resite a bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon and in the eavening I was at prayer meeting.    Monday 18  I was in school all day. The sun wa
Thursday February 21, 1861  The sun was out in the morning about ten o'clock it got cloudy and snowed for a short time and then cleared off and the sun came out. I was in school till half past three o'clock. I went with Delanson to get his type taken at a  saloon. It was crowded, we did not get back till six o'clock and we had our supper by ourselves. We had fun. I was in school in the evening.    Friday 22  The sun was out all day and blowed and it was cold. I was in school all day. I was in school in the evening. Coyes uncle was here today. The first they heard of his friends.    Saturday 23  The sun was out all day and it was warm. I was in school in the morning. In the afternoon I was writing letters. In the evening I was in school and had to learn a bible lesson.    Sunday 24  I was in school in the morning and recited a bible lesson. I was in church in the morning and afternoon. The sun was out. I was in meeting in the evening and it was cold and blew hard in the evening.    Monday 25  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and the ground thawed. I was in school in the evening.    Tuesday 26  The sun was out all day. I was in school all day. I was in school in the evening.    Wednesday 27  The sun was out all day. I was in school till three o'clock.
  Wednesday Feb 27 1861  Then the hole school went out and played ball all afternoon.    Thursday 28  The sun was out all day. The day appointed to pray for colledge. We was in school til eleven o’clock then Mr. Hall had prayer meeting in the house til noon. After dinner we was in school till two o’clock then we went to meeting in the lecture room. In the eavening Mr. Brockway was in the meeting we met in the setting room after that was over Hayden Hawkinds, Warner, Chapin and myself went in Mr. Hall’s parlor and had a meeting by ourselves and had a pleasant time.    Friday March 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was in school in the eavening.    Saturday 2  I was in school in the fornoon. I went downtown to the saloon to get jerry’s type copied. The sun was out all day and thawed. I was in school in the eavening to learn a bible lesson.    Sunday 3  I recited a bible lesson in the morning after that I got ready for church. I was in church morning in the afternoon we had communion. I was at meeting in the eavening and the sun was out all day. The warmest we had this spring. The thermometer was up to 70 degrees. After meeting was out in the eavening it rained some in the night.
Monday March 4, 1861  When I got up it was raining but by eight o’clock it had cleared off and the sun came out. I was in school all day. I was in school in the eavening.    Tuesday 5  The sun was out all day. I was in school all day and in the eavening. I was downtown in the eavening and chapin was a long when we came home the boys had supper we eat a lone I had seven peace of cake and too cups of tea.    Wednesday 6  I was in school all day. The sun was out til three o’ clock then it clowded up and the wind raised and snowed some it blowed all night. I was in society and Hayden was president Lewsi Sect. Lewis presented the society with apples we had a pleasant time.    Thursday March 7, 1861  I was in school all day. The wind blowed all day. The thermometer was fifteen degrees below freezing point. The sun was nearl all the time. I was in school in the eavening. To day I sent a letter to my Father about going to college. I filled a sheet of fools cap paper.    Friday 8  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and the wind does not blow so strong and it is not cold. I was in school in the eavening.    Saturday 9  I was in school in the morning. The sun was out in the morning but it clowded up and rained hard all night. I as in school in the eavening learning bible lesson. Mr Hall put the new desks in the school room and I helped to bring them in the room.
Sunday March 10, 1861  I was in the school room in the morning to recite my bible lesson after that I got ready for church. I went to church in morning and afternoon and in the afternoon after church I had to learn a lesson in barns notes. I was in the Sunday concert in the eavening. The sun was out in the morning but in the afternoon it rained, hailed and snowed, but in the eavening it cleared off.    Monday 11  The sun was out all day. I was in all day. The ground thawed some. I was in school all eavening.    Tuesday 12  I was in school all day. When I got up this morning it was snowing but it only snowed a few minutes and after that it cleared off and the sun came out. I was in school in the eavening. In the night it snowed.    Wednesday Mar. 13 1861  In the morning the ground was covered with snow it snowed in the night after that it got foggy and rained part of the time. I was in school all day. In the afternoon the snow was all gone and in the eavening the stares was out. I was in the society in the eavening.    Thursday 14  I was in the school all day. It commenced to snow in the morning and snowed all day and night. I was in school in the eavening. D. Lindley’s sister came today but went the next day.    Friday 15  I was in school all day it was snowing in the morning but stopped by eight o’clock and cleared off. I was in school in the eavening. The snow is about three inches deep.
Saturday Mar. 16, 1861  When I got up it was snowing and had been all night but stopped in a short time. I was in school in the morning but did not do much for Willson went to Hartford. In the afternoon I stayed about the house. In the eavening I was in school we had a bible lesson to learn.    Sunday 17  I was in school in the morning to recite a bible lesson. After that I got ready for church. I was in church morning and afternoon and at prayer meeting in the evening. The sun was out and the snow thawed some but it was cold.    Monday 18  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I went to get my type taken and the man was not there and Warner was with me. I was in school in the evening.    Tuesday March 19, 1861  It snowed in the night and was snowing when I got up and snowed all day. I was in school all day and in the evening.    Wednesday 20  The sun was out all day and the snow thawed some. I was in school till half past one then I went to the saloon and had my type taken. After that I went to practice on the piano. After I got through I went after my type. I was in society in the evening. Hayden gave the members apples.    Thursday 21  I was in school all day. It snowed in the night. It snowed all day and was snowing when I went to bed. I was in school in the evening. It snowed all night.
Friday March 22, 1861  It was snowing when I got up this morning and continued till noon then it cleared off. It drifted as fast as it snowed. The road was blocked up so the sleigh could not run. The snow was about 2 feet deep ware it was not drifted. The deepest snow we had this winter. After school the boys cleaned the walks. Mr Hall was up at Mifs. Booths and he was in the room alone.    Saturday 23  I was in school in the morning. Bob Willson sent Sisson and Covel to bed. The sun was out all day and the snow thawed some. I was down at the saloon and the man went to dinner and he locked H. Chapin and Gowdy and Mrs. Slate in the saloon and myself we had to stay til he came back. After that we had a snow-ball match. I was in school in the eavening. I commenced to review for examination.    Sunday 24, 1861  I was in school in the morning. After that I got ready for church. I was in church morning and after noon. I was in school after church. We had rice and brown shugar for dinner. The sun was out part of the day. The sun would come out for a few minutes then get clowdy.    Monday 25  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and the snow thawed. The sleighs run to day. I was in school in the eavening.    Tuesday 26  I was in school all day. Clowdy all day. The snow thawed and was slopy. I was up at Mils Boths in the eavening taking a lesson I did not get back til the boys was at prayers.
Wednesday March 27, 1861  Cloudy and rained in showers all day and it was foggy. The snow is near all gone. I was in school all day. I was in the society in the evening and Chapin and myself went out before it was out.    Thursday 28  The sun was out all day. I was in school all day. I was in school in the evening.    Friday 29  The sun was out all day. We had no school today it was fast day appointed by the Governor of Conn. We was at meeting in the fornoon, in the afternoon we was at church and at half past four we had prayer meeting in the recitation room. I was in school in the evening. The fast was appointed for prayer of the State of Conn. and the world and the south and for the prosperity of the grain that is planted. E. Warner and myself went to the graveyard in the evening and from there we went to the post office.      Saturday 30  I was in school in the morning and we did not do anything but study our declimations for examination. The sun was out when I got up this morning but it clowded up by eight o’clock and rained but in the afternoon it cleared off and the sun came out. After I had washed E. Warner and my selfe went to the tavern and got the keyes of the church and we went on top of the church and we wrote our names then we went on top of the church and we went down to the bell and we wrote our names their then went
Down to the clock and stayed there till the clock struck I was on it when it struck it shook me I stuck my head out of the hole at the face of the clock. Then we went down in the church I went up on the pulpit and then Warner went up and put a peace of paper in one of the lamps then we went up on the gallery and I wrote in one of the books. I was in school on the eavening and had a review lesson.    Sunday 31  I was in school in the morning. I was in church morning and afternoon and in the eavening. I was in school after church. Clear all day. We did not recite our lesson in barnes notes to day. B. Willson was sick.    Monday April 1, 1861  I was in school all day. Delanson got his head cut fighting with Townsend. I was in school in the eavening. The sun was out in the morning but in the afternoon about three o’clock it commenced to snow and continued all night.    Tuesday 2  It was snowing when I got up this morning and continued all day but stopped in the eavening. I was in school all day. I was in school all eavening. I was up at Mifs. Booths 1 ½ hours practicing.    Wednesday 3  I was in school all day. It commenced to snow at six o’clock this morning and continued all day. The snow is about six inches deep. In the eaveneing the societies had oysters and the town
Boys was here. At seven o’clock the societies came to order and Mr. Hall gave the boys some apples after that he gave some molasses candy after that the boys that are going to leave this term gave their fair well speeches some of the names are E. Warner, H. Chapin, S. Sisson, G. Thompson, Johnson, after that Chapman spoke but he could not say much for crying then Hawkins spoke then B. Willson and after that Mr. Hall. The last meeting of the society this term. It was a pleasant meeting.    Thursday 4  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and the snow melted some. About seven o’clock this morning the thermometer was 11 degrees above zero and the trees was all white with ice. The snow is not all gone yet.    Friday 5  I was in school till ten o’clock then I stayed of school all day I had the head-ake. In the morning I went to the shoe-maker and lofed till noon. D. Lindley and J. Clark was along in the afternoon. W. Cornstock and my-self went to bed. The sun was out all day. The snow thawed some.    Saturday 6.  I was in school in the fornoon. We did not do anything but practice on our peaces. The sun was out all day.    Sunday 7  I was in school in the morning and afternoon. I was in church morning and afternoon and in the eavening. The sun was out
all day and it was warm.    Monday 8  The first day of examination. Before resess some of the boys spoke and before noon some more spoke but their was not any person in to hear us examined. I spoke before school was out. In the eavening some of the boys spoke their was some ladies in. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 9  The second day of examination. Their was some ladies in and herd my arithmetic but did not hear my P. Geography. Their was not any ladies in school in the afternoon. The sun was out all day. There is snow on the ground yet. The last day of school in this term    Wednesday Apr. 10, 1861  The sun was out all day. I left Ellington at eight o’clock in the morning for Springfield in a stage we got to springfield at eleven o’clock. Mr. Brown, Judson, D. Young, and my-self and some of the other boys. H Chapin went with me through the hall after that he gave us our dinner free. At half-past one. Mr. Brown, H. Chapin, Judson, D. Young and my-self started for Boston, at five o’clock we got in. Boston, Chapin told me which way to go so I had not much trouble to find the place. I stopped at the Quincy house. We went the Howard Antheneum in the evening. I went to bed near eleven o’clock. The first day of vacation.
Thursday April 11, 1861  I arose at six o’clock and had breakfast at eight o’clock after breakfast we went to the Boston Common and their we went met a young man by the name of Gilbert and he went with us to mount Auborn we got back by one o’clock. I went with him to his bording house and got dinner with him and I made up my mind to bored their. IN the afternoon I went in the picture gallery and stayed all afternoon, after I left their I went to my place of abode which was at the Quincy house and got my things and went to a private house in Summer street No 95. I was in the house all eavning. The sun was out all day and it was warm. I ? snow in the streets to day.    Boston April Friday 12, 1861  We got up about six o'clock and had breakfast at seven. After breakfast we went to the Cristomhouse and went through all the house and from there to N Hall the cradle of liberty where the soldiers stayed till they left for Washington. There is a picture in the hall that cost $12.00 and a clock that the children of Boston bought. The next place we went to was the Aquarial gardens which are on Washington street we stayed there the remainder of the fornoon. Before dinner we went in a picture store to see the pictures it is on Washington street from there we went and got our dinners. After dinner we went to Bunker Hill Monument it has 296 steps to go up.
Boston Apr. Friday 12, 1861  And when we went up we had to take a lantern so we could see. The next place I went to was the Navy Yard and the first place we went was the roap- walk the only one in the United States belonging to the Navy Yards. We saw two of the boats that are getting fixed for war the Minnisotia, Mississippia and the guns that go on the boats. We did not get through to day. From this we went to our bording house. We stayed in the house all eavning and had some fun their was some ladies in the parlor. The sun was out all day.    Saturday 13  We arose at six o’clock and had breakfast at eight. After breakfast we went to the Navy Yard again ourselves and went all through the yard we saw a boat cald the Virginia but is not finished it has been on the stock for over forty years. We went to Bunker Hill the second time we saw whare Warren fell. The next place I went to was the public gardens but it was to soon to see any thing. After dinner we went to the boston Museum and stayed all afternoon we saw the play then looked at the things it was raining when we left the Museum and we got wet feet. We stayed in the house all eavning. The sun was out in the fornoon but about ten o’clock it commenced to rain and it showered all fornoon in the afternoon it pored down and in the night. The Boston Museum is on Tremont street.    Sunday 14  I got up at eight o’clock and had breakfast after that and we dressed after
Boston April Sunday 14, 1861  I went to church at eleven o'clock at the Park street church but Mr. Stone did not preach. In the afternoon I went to the Old South street church the oldest church in Boston and the one the British soldiers occupied in the time of the war, it is on Washington Street. I stayed in the house all evening. The sun was out all day.    Monday 15  The sun was out all day. We got up at seven o'clock. After breakfast we went to the Boston reservoir from there to the Common and from there to our boarding house and stayed there till ten o'clock then I took a letter to the post office and from there to the Worcester depot. After dinner we went to Summerville. The first place we stopped at was the Asylum. We went to the house but the lady that we wanted to see was not at home so we started to hunt Mrs. Booth's sister but she was not at home so we started for the Asylum again but the lady had not come, but her sister took us through the yard. The lady's name is Mrs. Sawyer. We did not get in to the Asylum. From there we took the horse cares for Boston. We stayed in the house all evening. We went to bed at nine o'clock. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 16, 1861  We got up at eight o'clock and had breakfast shortly after we got up. We went to the State house for a short time we thought the soldiers would be up there but they did not come so we come to our boarding house and stayed
in the house the remainder of the day. I slept part of the time and part I played checkers. It rained all day hard. We did not go to bed till eleven o'clock. I had a splendid time in the evening.      Wednesday 17  We got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast at half past seven. After breakfast I went to the post office and from there to the State House. In the afternoon I went to the depot to see the soldiers off to Washington. In the evening we were in the parlor and some of the boarders got throwing mats and put out the gas and the lady of the house came up and stopped us. We went to bed at eleven o'clock. It rained in the morning but by noon it cleared and the sun came out and got warm.    Boston April Thursday 18, 1861  I got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast shortly after. After breakfast we went to the Brighten market about eight miles from Boston we went in a city car we was gone all forenoon we got back about one o'clock. After dinner we went up to the state house to see the sixth regiment drilling around the state house and on the common. We was there all afternoon. In the evening some of the boarders went with us to the Sons of Temperance room and one of them asked me to pass the hymnbooks around among the ladies but I did not. From there we went down on the common and from there to our boarding house. It was eleven o'clock before we got to bed. The sun was out all day but it was cold in the morning.
Boston Apr. Friday 19, 1861  We got up at half past eight and went to breakfast shortly after. In the fornoon we went uptown and in the afternoon we stayed around the house. In the eavning two of of the boarders went with us to the public library and from their to the Mercantile library. Their they have papers from all of the world and from every state in the Union and it is got up by the merchants of Boston. The sun came out by spells but it was clowdy near all day and rained some. We did not get to bed til after ten o’clcock.    Saturday 20  We arose at seven o’clock and had breakfast shortly after. We went down to the warfs in the morning and we got on a ferry boat and rode a cross the water we stayed around the warfs near all morning from their we went to the state house and could not get in. From their we went to out boarding house and had dinner at half past one. In the afternoon we went to the Boston museum and stayed their all afternoon. The museum is on Tremont street. On the upper gallery the wax figures are. We had supper at half past six. In the eavning we went up town and had some icecream from their we went to bed. The sun was out all day. I looked through a telescope at the sun for the first time and saw some black spots on the sun.    Sunday 21  We got up at eight o’clock and had breakfast at nine. In the morning three of the borders went with us to the Music Hall to hear Filips speak on the war. We went at ten
Boston April Sunday 21, 1861  He did not begin to speak until eleven, the people all could not get into the building. There was thirty large flags in the hall. It looked like a political meeting. In the afternoon we went to a church on School Street. It is a Universalist church and three of the boarders went with us. In the evening we stayed in the house. The sun was out all day.    Monday 22  We got up at six o'clock and had breakfast at seven and shortly after that we started for the depot. We loft Boston at half past eight for Springfield. It was raining in the morning when I got up but cleared off before noon. We got to Springfield by twelve o'clock. We put our baggage in Chapins house and we went in search for Adams but he was not at home so we went to see Dwelly and we got our dinners there and Dwelly went with us after Adams again and we all went to the Arsenal and went all through the buildings where the arms are made. In the evening we stayed in the house.      Tuesday 23  We got up at seven o'clock. After breakfast we went with Dwelly to the City Hall,Gymnaseum, Cemetary and from there to the house. After dinner we started for the depot. We left for Ellington at two o'clock, we got to Warhouse point at three o'clock, we left there in a stage for Ellington. We got to Ellington at five o'clock. It was very warm, the horses was in one lather of sweat. The sun was out all day but in the evening it lighteninged and rained part of the night and a powder magazine blowed up about ten o'clock and shook the house.

Ellington April Sunday 28, 1861  I did not get up till seven o'clock and did not get breakfast till eight o'clock. I had to learn a bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. In the afternoon we had a sermon on war. I stayed for Sunday school. After church, I took a nap and slept till supper time. I stayed in the house all evening. It rained all day and night.    Monday 29  In the fornoon I wrote and practiced on the piano. In the afternoon I was writing. I was about the house all day in the evening I stayed in the house. It was cloudy and raining in the morning but about ten o'clock it cleared off and the sun came out.    Tuesday 30  I was writing all fornoon. I did not get up till seven o'clock. In the afternoon I stayed around the house. In the evening I went up to Mrs. Booths and stayed till nine o'clock and when I came home the door was locked and the boys had gone to bed but I got in. The sun was out all day but in the evening it rained some. The last day of vacation.    Wednesday May 1, 1861  The first day of school. We did not go in school till nine o'clock and at recess we had a half an hour. In the afternoon school did not go in till half past one. I did not go in school after recess. The boys came in all day. The sun was out in the morning but in the afternoon it raided and hailed.    Thursday 2  We went in school at half past nine. The boys was not all
Ellington May 2, 1861  hear to day. The sun was out all day.    Friday 3  I was in school day. The sun was out all day. The boys are not all hear yet. I was at Mifs. Booths in the eavning.    Saturday 4  School took in at 9 o’clock. I was in school all fornoon. In the afternoon I was working on my flower bed. I was in school in the eavning it was clowdy and cold but by noon the sun came out.    Sunday 5  I was in school in the morning and had a lesson on the bible to recite. I was in church in the morning and afternoon in the afternoon we had communion in prayer meeting in the eavning. The sun was out all day.    Monday 6  I was in school all day. It rained all day but cleared off in the night. I was up at Mifs. Booths in the eavning.    Tuesday 7  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the eavning I lofed.    Wednesday 8  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day and had sun showers all day. In the eavning I went to the sewing society at Pitkins and I did not get
Ellington Thursday May 9, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the evening we played football till dark.    Friday 10  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. In the evening I was around the house and went to bed at half past eight.    Saturday 11  I was in school in the morning. It commenced to rain in the morning and rained til noon in the afternoon it was cloudy but did not rain. I took Mrs Booth to Rockville. We started at two o'clock and did not get back till five o'clock in the evening. Coming home we came through the woods. I had my hair cut. I did not get back in time to wash. I was in school in the evening to learn bible lesson but we was not in more than one hour.    Ellington Sunday May 12, 1861  I was in school in the morning to recite bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. In the afternoon we was in school to study a lesson in barns notes. I was at Sabbath school concert in the evening. The sun was out all day. In the afternoon about five o'clock about 12 of the boys was called in Mr. Hall's room. Some for chewing tocacco, some for drinking cider and wine. Spencer was sent home on foot, but come back on Monday morning with  his Father. He used the weed.    Monday 13  I was in school all day. Clowdy all day. I was in the yard in the eavning.    Tuesday 14  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was up at Mifs. Booths in the eavning.
Ellington Wednesday May 15, 1861  The sun was out all day. I was in my room all day. I was sick with disorder of my bowels. In the afternoon N. Lindley and Porter was in my room all afternoon and Mifs. Upson was in part of the time. I throwed the sun in the window at Mifs. Booth and Jane Thompson and N/ Lindley put it in Janes eys when she past the window. In the eavning D. and N. Lindley and myself walked on the walk. After prayers we set up the window til ten o’clock.    Thursday 16  I was in school all day. In the eavning I was out ll day. In the eavning I was up at Mifs. Booths and Jane Tompson was their. I was their til half past eight. I was late to prayers but willson did not say anything.    Ellington Friday May 17, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out. IN the eavning N. Lindley and my self got permission of Mr. Willson to be out in the eavning we went to Mifs. Booths but she was not at home so we went to Mifs Bilberts and Mifs. Booth was their and N. Lindley came home with her we got home after nine o’clock. We came in through the kitchen.    Saturday 18  I was in school in the fornoon. IN the afternoon I went with Mr. Griswold to Bockville with Mr. Halls horse we took him out for exercise. We saw the soldiers drill at Rockville that leav on Monday for Washington. Delanson was out walking with Mifs. Booth. The sun was out past the time. I was in school in the eavning.
Ellington Sunday May 19, 1861  I was in school in the morning to recite a bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon to recite a lesson in barns notes. At six o’clock N. Lindley and myself went to hear a stranger preach in the conference room after that we went to walk up by the high school with Jane Thompson and Mifs Booth we went as far as the rest house when we come back we went in the house and had beer. We left their at half past eight for home we just got back in time for prayers. The sun was out all day.     Monday 20  I was in school all day. In the eavning N. Lindley and myself went to walk on the walk.    Tuesday May 21, 1961  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. N. Lindley went with me to Mifs. Booths in the afternoon and Jane Thompson was their and we had fun and had beer. After we left their Slates Mill was on fire we went to that we road on Chapmans wagon to the fire but the mill burnt down. I got wet feet. I came home with William Thompson on the horse about seven o’clock. After supper I went up at Mifs. Booths and Anna Gunn was their and I had an introduction to her and had beer. I was late to prayers but Mr. Hall did not say any things. The mill was a cotton batten mill. It caught on fire in the oven. The engine house and one brick building was saved.
Ellington Wednesday May 22, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I went walking in the eavning.    Thursday 23  I was in school in the morning with resess after resess I stayed in my room and I had the headache. I was in school in the afternoon. In the eavning I planted some bushes for Mifs. Booth and I took tee at Mifs Booths. After tea Mifs. Booth and Mifs Apson and Jane Thompson, N. Lindley, Judson and myself went to walk and went to the ruins and from their around the mountain square but Mifs Apson and Judson left us coming home. We did not get home til after nine and we left Mifs Booth and Mifs Thompson in fron of the school and Mifs Booth went home with Mifs Thompson and N. Lindley and my selfe took our boots off in the yard and went through the kitchen to bed. The sun was out all day. We walked about six miles.    Friday 24  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was at home in the eavning.    Saturday 25  I was in school in the morning. In the af
notes. I was in prayer meeting after supper. After meeting I went walking with Mifs Booth past the high school and up the plastered house and I had some beer. The sun was out all day and it was warm.    Monday 27  I was in school all day. It rained hard when I got up and the sun came out but clowded up about four o’clock it rained very hard and Mifs Booth and myself was in the parlor all afternoon. It was very windy. In the eavning I was up at Mifs Booths.    Tuesday 28  I was in school all day. The sun was out all daybut it was very windy. I went with the Mifs. Brockways from Mifs Booths and took the horse home and I was late to prayers but Mr Willson did not say any thing.    Ellington Wednesday May 23 1861  I was in school all day. Clowdy and rain all day. I was up at Mifs. Booths in the eavning.    Thursday 30  I was in school day. The sun was out all day. N. Lindley and myself was on that walk and we met Anna Gunn and Jane Thompson.    Friday 31  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was over at Mifs. Booths in the eavning.    Ellington Saturday June 1 1861  The sun was out all day. I was in school in the morning. In the afternoon N. Lindley and myself went to see Mifs. Booth. In the eavning I was in school.    Sunday 2  I was in school in the morning after school I went to church. In the afternoon
Ellington Sunday June 2, 1861  I went to church again. After church I was in school and had a lesson in barns notes. After tea we had to go in school and stay till sun down. The sun was out till five o'clock then there was a shower of rain. In the evening I was up at Mrs. Booths.    Monday 3  I was in school till I recited my arithmetic then I went out and stayed out all day. I was sick. It was cloudy all day.    Tuesday 4  I was out of school all day. In the morning I walked up past the high school and walked about six miles. I was gone two hours. In the evening Mrs. Booth and myself went up to Hammonds in the evening and we met the teachers and some ladies. I did not get back till half past eight. The sun was out all day. I was over at Mrs. Booths in the afternoon and Jane Griswold was there and they played and sung.    Wednesday 5  The sun was out all day. I was not in school all day. I stayed around the house.    Thursday 6  I was not in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Friday 7  I was not in school all day. The sun was out all day.      Saturday 8  I was not in school today. The sun was out in the fornoon but in the afternoon it rained in showers and I went up to Mrs. Booths and she was ironing and I stayed all afternoon. I went in school in the evening but did not study.
Ellington Sunday June 9, 1861  I did not go in school all day but went to church in the morning and afternoon and to Sunday school concert at six o’clock. I slpet in the afternoon. The sun was out all day. After sun down Mifs. Booth, Jane Thompson, N. Lindley and myself went walking up past the high school above the high school to get a drink of water then we started for home. We just got back in time for prayers.     Monday 10  I was not in school all day. The sun was out till about six oclock then it clowded up and sprinkled a little. In the afternoon I stayed about the house. In the afternoon Haydon, H. Judson, N. Lindley and myself hired Chapmans team and went to the shakers. It is about eight miles from Ellington. We started after dinner and got up their after three o’clock we went through the houses and barns and through the dairy. Then we got supper and it only cost fifty cents for four of us. We saw some girls. We left their after five o’clock and got home about seven. It commenced to rain first as I got home. We had a pleasant time.    Tuesday 11  I was not in school all day. The sun was out all day but it rained in the eavning. I was over at Mifs. Booths all afternoon and Mr. Hall came in while I was there. In the she went to ride.
Ellington Wednesday June 12, 1861  I was not in school all day. I went to walk in the fornoon and D. Lindley went along. We went up past the red house. We shot frogs after that we gathered flowers and gave them to Mifs. Booth. We got back at noon.    Thursday 13  The sun was out all day. I was not in school all day. In the afternoon I was up at Mifs. Booths.    Friday14  The sun was out all day. I was not in school all day. In the fornoon I was up. I was up at Mifs. Booths. In the afternoon I practiced on the piano and Mifs. Booths was sleeping on the setee. In the eavning D. Lindley  and myself went to walk.    Saturday June 15, 1861  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. I stayed around the house all day. In the eavning I went to Rockville with Mr. Thompson and I drove. We did not get back til nine o’clock.    Sunday 16  I did not go to school today. I went to church in the morning and eavning. After meeting I went to see Mifs. Booth and stayed til the prayer bell rang. The sun was out til one o’clock then it rained but by three o’clock it cleared off. The thermometer stood at 85 degrees it was very warm.    Monday 17  I was not in school all day. The sun was out all day. The thermomter is up to 80 degrees near all the time.
Ellington Tuesday June 18, 1861  The sun was out all day. Mifs. Clark, N. Lindley, D. Lindley, Covel Cent, D. Young and myself went to Hatford and Mr. Thompson drove. We had two horses. We started at half past seven and got their at ten o’clock. I had some Photographs taken. D. Lindley and myself got our dinner at Greens on  Ashley St. I had my haircut close to my head. We left Hartford after three o’clock and got to Ellington after seven o’clock. I had scotch ale and oysters for dinner. I has a splendid time.     Wednesday 19  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. In the fornoon I was up at Mifs. Booths and I went up at three o’clock and stayed till eight o’clock. I took tea their and two of the teachers came their while I was their and the eat with us. Ellen and myself played backgammon. I had strawberry short cake for supper. Ellen showed me some pictures of some gentlemen.     Thursday 20  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. I was around the house all day in the eavning.I was up at Mifs. Booths we was out on the steeps.     Friday 21  I was not in school all day. The sun was out till four oclock then it commenced to rain and some. I was up at Mifs. Booths all morning and part of the afternoon. I had strawberrys and cream to eat.
Ellington Saturday June 22, 1861  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. I was around the house all day. In the evening some of us went to walk.    Sunday 23  I was not in school today. I was in church morning and afternoon and in the evening. I was up at Mrs. Booths in the evening. I took a nap in the afternoon. The sun was out till three o'clock then it rained two hours then it cleared off and the sun came out. The thermometer was down to 60 degrees at eight o'clock.    Monday 24  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 25  I was in school part of the fornoon. The sun was out all day. In the afternoon I was over at Mrs. Booths.    Ellington Wednesday June 26, 1861  I was in school part of the fornoon. In the afternoon the boys was at the aire. We was there till six o'clock. In the evening I had to stay home. Cloudy most of the time but did not rain till night.    Thursday 27  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day.    Friday 28  I was not in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Saturday 29  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. In the afternoon we went swimming and Willson went with us and we stayed in the water five minutes. I was not in school in the evening.
Ellington Sunday, June 30, 1861  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. I was at church in the morning and afternoon and in the eavning. I took a nap in the afternoon. In the eavning I was over at Mifs. Booths.  Monday July 1, 1861  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. I was up at Mifs. Booths part of the morning and I was their in the eavning and Mifs. Thompson was their and we throwed pillows at each other and when I left I run and Jane after me and I jumped over the gate and cut a gash in my left leg.    Tuesday 2  I was not in school today. It commenced to rain at six o’clock and rained till noon. I was ? at Mifs Booths all fornoon and I eat three boalt eggs and two plates of strawberrys. I was their in the eavning and Mifs Thompson was their and Mifs Griswold cam in and I got her to play on the piano and Mr. Willson and Mifs. Apson came in and Willson played.    Wednesday 3  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day.    Thursday 4  I got up about five o’clock. The sun was out all day and the thermometer was up to 80 degrees in the shade. I stayed around the house all day. I was the onley boy that stayed at home. I did not spend but five sent all day. I went to see the fire works in the eavning down on the green. I went to bed about o’clock. I had lemonade in my room.
Ellington Friday July 5, 1861  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. I was about the house all day.    Saturday 6  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. In the fornoon about eleven o'clock D. Lindley, N. Lindley and myself went to swim and we did not get back till one o'clock. And we got dinner. In the afternoon I stayed around the house. In the evening I was at school.    Sunday 7  I was not in school today. I took a nap before church in the morning. I was in church morning and afternoon. I took a nap in the afternoon after church. We had communion today. I did not go to meeting in the evening. The theremometer was up to 90 degrees today. The sun was out all day.    Monday 8  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. In the morning about nine o'clock, D. Lindley, N. LIndley, E.Warner and myself went swimming and did not get back till noon. In the afternoon we made lemonade in Lindley's room. We was there from twelve to two o'clock. After that I went to Mrs. Booths and took a nap in the parlor. I slept from two to five o'clock. The theremometer was up to 97 degrees today.    Tuesday 9  I left Ellington in the morning for Hartford. I left on the boat down the river. I got off at Saybrook about nine o'clock. I went to bed at ten.
Saybrook Tuesday July 9, 1861  I slept at the fenwick house. It was a very warm day. The sun was out all day. I had my supper in the boat six hours.    Wednesday 10  I got up at six o’clock. I stayed around the house all day. I saw Lady Fenwicks monument the first white lady that died in this country. She was and English lady. I saw whare Yale colledge was first founded. It is at the mouth of the conn. River. The sun was out all day but in the eavning it was cool.    Thursday 11  I got up at six o’clock, It was clowdy when I got up but cleared off by eight o’clock. I left Saybrook at one o’clock on the boat for New-London on the sound. I got to New London at four o’clock. After supper I went with a gent man from Hartford to the Groton Heights across the river from New London and I saw the Groton Monument. After that I came to the hotel and played backgammon with a lady from Hartford. The Hotel I stopped at in New London is the City Hotel. I went to bed at ten o’clock.    Friday 12  I l
Hartford, July Friday 12, 1861  as soon as I got on board.    Saturday 13  I got up at five o’clock but did not get to Hartford til seven o’clock. I had my breakfast at Greens saloon. After breakfast I went to the Atheneum. I had dinner at one o’clock after dinner I went to the depot. I left Hartford for Ellington at two o’clock. I came from Vernon to Rockville on the stage. A gentleman from the west and myself walked from Rockville to Ellington in three quarters of an hour the distance is four miles. We got to Ellington at half past four o’clock. I was up at Mifs. Booths in the till the bell rung for prayers. The sun was all day and it was very warm all day.    Ellington Sunday July 14 1861  I was not in school all day. I was in church morning and afternoon. I took a nap in the afternoon. Afternoon after sun down I went to Mifs. Booths and stayed til prayer time. It was clowdy all day. It commenced to rain about eleven o’clock and rained fast all day.    Monday 15  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was at Mifs. Booths all afternoon and we played backgammon and I beat her. I got fooling with her and her mother did not like it. It was clowdy part of the day but the sun was out most of the day.    Tuesday 16  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was in my room. The sun was out all day. The thermometer was down to 70 degrees
Ellington, Tuesday July 16, 1861  in the eavning.    Wednesday 17  I was in school in the morning. The sun was out all day. In the eavning Mifs. Booth, Mifs. Thompson, N. Lindley and myself went shooting mark. Mifs. Booth shot my hat. We got back at eight o’clock.    Thursday 18  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. I was over at Mifs. Booths all afternoon reading.    Friday 19  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day. In the afternoon I walked up past the high school and down in the howlow read all afternoon.    Saturday 20  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. I was over at Mifs. Booths all afternoon reading.    Saturday 20  I was not in school to day.    Ellington Saturday, July 20, 1861  The sun was out all day. I was around the house all day. In the eavning I was up at Mifs. Booths.    Sunday 21  I was in school to day. I was in church morning and afternoon. IN the eavning I went to Sunday school concert. In the eavning I was at Mifs. Booths. The sun was out all day.    Monday 22  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. I was around the house all day.    Tuesday 23  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day. IN the afternoon I went past the high school to hollow to read.    Wednesday 24  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day.
Ellington Thursday July 25, 1861  I was in school in the fornoon. The sun was out all day.    Friday 26  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. In the evening I was up at Mrs. Booths and Mrs. Thompson and myself played backgammon all evening. We was all alone.    Saturday 27  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. I was around the house all day.      Sunday 28  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. I was in church morning, afternoon and evening.    Monday 29  I was not in school today. It rained in showers all day. In the afternoon Ashley and myself went after pearls but did not get any.    Ellington Tuesday July 30, 1861  I was not in school today. The sun was out all day. In the fornoon George Wighting and myself went after pearls but did not get any. We got one trout, one sucker. In the afternoon Whighton, Quinn and myself went after pearls but did not get any.    Wednesday 31  I was not in school today. Today is the first time I ever drilled.
Ellington August Thursday 1, 1861  About half past seven o’clock. The tortch lite procession commenced and we marched til ten o’clock. After the prossession we had fire works, After That we went to bed. It was showery all day. The sun came out by spells.    Friday 2  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. The thermometer was up to 88 degrees. N. Lindley and myself went bathing about four o’clock we did not get back til after tea. We went in belches.    Saturday 3  I was not in school to day. The sun was out all day. The thermometer was up to 90 degrees. I was around the house to day.    Sunday 4  I was not in school to day. I was at church in the morning and afternoon after church I took a nap. I went to prayer meeting at six o’clock. After meeting D. Lindley and myself took a walk up past the high school then up and down the walk. The last Sunday in Ellington. We went to bed at half past eight.    Monday 5  I was not in school to day. The first day of examination. I was in my room in the morning packing. In the afternoon I was up at Mifs. Booths and took a lesson on the piano fort. The last one I took. I was ll but two hours taking a lesson. In the eavning I had a long talk with Mr. Hall in front of the house on the railing. I went to bed at half past eight o’clock. The sun was out in the fornoon but about noon it commenced to rain and rained in showers all afternoon but cleared up.
Ellington Tuesday August 6, 1861  I was not in school today. The last day of examination. I was up at Mrs. Booth's in the fornoon and after noon and in the evening Delanson and myself went there. The last I was in Ellington. The sun was out, all fornoon. In the after-noon it rained some but in the after part of the afternoon the sun was out. I was around the house all day. I wrote this after prayers in my room and I finished packing. I did not go to bed till ten o'clock.    Wednesday 7  I left Ellington at seven o'clock for Hartford. I was up at Mrs. Booth's in the morning before I left. I was in Hartford from ten to three o'clock. I left Hartford on the City of Hartford for New York. Gray, New York.    New York Wednesday August 7 1861  Gray, Covel, Hatch, Bristol, Kellogg, Delanson and myself came to New York together. We was on the boat all night. It rained in the night. We got in New York about five o'clock in the morning. Cloudy most of the day but not rain.          Thursday 8  We left the boat in the morning and went to the Aster House and after breakfast Kellogg, Dalanson and myself went through Barnums Museum. We went in at eight and came out at eleven o'clock on the Camdon & Amboy R. R. I got to Philadelphia at six o'clock. I stopped at the Continental Hotel. I had  tea at six and supper at nine. I went to bed at eleven. The sun was out part of the day but mostly cloudy.
Philadelphia. Friday. Aug 9. 1861  I got up at eleven o’clock in the morning and had breakfast shortly after I got up. After breakfast I took a walk to the depot to meet my Father but the cars had come and I was too late so I went back to the hotel and stayed til two o’clock then Father came and then we went out shopping. We had our dinner about three o’clock. After dinner we went around the city. We had tea at nine in the eavning. After Uncle Redsecker went with Delanson and myself to a consert on chesnut street. I went to bed at half past eleven. Clowdy all day.    Saturday 10  We got up at eleven o’clock in the morning. After breakfast we went down to the post office. We had breakfast at nine o’clock. We left Phil. At eleven o’clock in the fast line and got home    Middletown. Saturday. Aug. 10 1861  At half past three o’clock. I stayed at home all eavning. Clowdy all day.    Sunday 11  I got up at six o’clock. I went to church in the morning and to Sunday school. We had dinner at half past three o’clock. I was around the house all eavning. I did not feel well. The sun was out to day.    Monday 12  I was around the house all day. In the afternoon I went out to the farm and I took anne miller out and I run to a wagon and broke a spoke in the buggy. I stayed at home in the eavning. It rained all day.    Tuesday 13  I was around the house all day. It rained all day. We had fire in the office to day. I went to bed at ten o’clock.
Middletown. Wednesday Aug 14, 1861  I was around the house all day. It was cold. The clowds commenced to break in the morning and at noon the sun came out. I was out at the farm till the moon was out. I went to bed at ten o’clock. The band was out serenading to night at our house I was at the window.    Tuesday 15  I went to Harrisburg at nine oclock with the horse and buggy and I took James Hubley and Delanson along with me. When we got near Harrisburg we put two cats out of the buggy that we braught from home. We got to Harrisburg by noon we got dinner at Felix’s and slept their. I had ice cream their. I went to bed at ten oclock. Delanson got sick tonite. Sun out.    Friday 16  I sent Delanson home on the cares. I left Harrisburg after one oclock.    Middletown, Friday. Aug. 16. 1861  In the eavning I went to a party at Rodfongs. I did not get home til about twelve oclock. I went home with Mifs. Etter. The sun was out all day in the eavning it rained some.    Saturday 17  I was around the house all day. It was clowdy all day. In the eavning I went calling.    Sunday 18  I went to church in the morning. In the afternoon I took a nap. I went to church in the eavning twice. Clowdy all day.    Monday 19  I was around the house all day. I was busy all the time. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 20  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day. In the eavning S. Felix and myself went up
Middletown Tuesday August 20, 1861  Town and made two calls. One at Mrs. McCamons and Mrs Zimmermans and we got home at ten o'clock.    Wednesday 21  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day. In the evening I went up town. I went to bed at half past nine.    Thursday 22  I was around the house today. I helped to load shingles on two wagons and helped to turn boards. It rained in showers all day.    Friday 23  In the fornoon I was at the office. In the afternoon I took Mother out to the farm for corn. I was at the farm all after-noon. In the evening I went to a party at Mrs. Zimmerman's. The ladies that was there is E. McCord, H. Weistling, E. Feringlon, E. Potermor, C. Smuller, Mrs Etter. The gentlemen are W. Weistling, J. Wolfly, A. Ocerman, Mr. Hill and myself. We had cakes and lemonade. We stayed till eleven o'clock. I took Mrs. McCord home. The sun was out all day.    Saturday 24  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day. In the evening I went up town. I went to bed at ten.    Sunday 25  I got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast at eight. After breakfast I dressed. I went to catholic church with Sue and Mrs. Lynches. In the afternoon I went to campmeeting. In the evening Mrs. Parker was at our house till ten. The sun was out today. The sun was out all day.      Monday 26  I was cleaning the yard in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was at the office.
I was at the house all evening. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 27  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day.    Wednesday 28  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day.    Thursday 29  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day. Mother was at Harrisburg all night. I went to bed at nine.    Friday 30  I got up at half past four and hauled shingles all fornoon. We counted 30,000 for a bote. In the afternoon H. Ettly and myself measured the line fences in the afternoon at the farm. In the evening I went up town with John Shafer. I was out till ten o'clock. The sun was out all day.    Middletown Saturday August 31, 1861  I was up at five o'clock. I went out to the farm on the wagon. I was pulling weeds in the yard. I came in about three o'clock. In the evening I went to a surprise party at I. Feringtons and I did not get home till half past eleven.    Sunday September 1   I had breakfast at eight. I went to church in the morning. In the afternoon Father B. Cameron, Delanson and myself went up to Mr. Camerso's and I saw Mr. Thompson and the correspondent of the tribune. I went to church in the evening. The sun was out all day.    Monday 2  I was hauling shingles all day. In the evening I went up town and I went to see Kate. The sun was out all day. I went to bed at half past nine.
Middletown Tuesday September 3, 1861  I got up at four o'clock and helped to haul two loades of shingles to the bank after that I helped to thrash all day. In the evening I stayed at the house. The sun was out all day.    Wednesday 4  I was helping to thrash wheat all day. Went to bed after supper.      Thursday 5  I was around the house all fornoon in the afternoon I cleaned the yard out at the farm. In the evening I went up town. The sun was out all day.    Friday 6  I was around the house in the fornoon. I played three games of chess with John Shafer after that we shot mark in the yard. I shot through the fence and into a privy and their was a woman in. The sun was out all day.    Middletown Saturday 7, 1861  We started fishing in the morning. John Cole, L. Atheton, W. Miller, F. Young, Delanson and myself was the crowd. We fished some time but did not get any fish. Then I shot mark. We all went in swimming on the Island. We went fishing down at the mill. I had a bottle of lager beer with us. We came back at four o'clock. The sun was out all day.    Sunday 8  I got up at eight o'clock. I went to church in the morning and to sunday school. I stayed at home in the evening. I went to bed at nine. The sun was out all day.    Monday 9  I had breakfast at half past five this morning. I was out at the farm three times to day. The sun was out all day.
Middletown, Tuesday, Sept. 10, 1861  I was around the office all day. I was out at the farm three times to day. I went to fishers with John Shafer to see B. Cofelt and we stayed till half past nine. The sun was out all day.    Wednesday 11  I was around the house in the fornoon. In the afternoon I went to Harrisburg to get my teeth fixed. I came home in the eavning. The sun was out in the fornoon in the afternoon it rained.    Thursday 12  I was in the house all day. I was sick with a headace. I went to bed at eight o’clock. The sun was out all day.    Friday 13  I went out to the farm in the morning and worked all day. I stayed out all night. I went to bed at nine o clock. The sun was out all day.    Middletown, Saturday, Sept. 14, 1861  I was out at the farm all day picking apples. I came in at night. The sun was out all day.    Sunday 15  I went to church in the morning and eavning and to Sunday school. The sun was out all day.    Monday 16  I went to the farm and stayed till three oclock. I was picking apples. The sun was out all day. Delanson and myself went to grandmothers in the eavning and stayed till the next day at ten o’clock.    Tuesday 17  I left grandmothers at ten for Lancaster we got their at noon. I stayed at aunts all afternoon in the eavning. Rose and myself went to see her grandmother after that we had watermelons at aunts. I went to bed at nine. It rained all day.
Lanacster. Wednesday. Sept. 18, 1861  I was at aunts till ten o’clock then I left for Columbia we got their by noon. I stayed in the house all after noon in the eavning Sol went with us over Columbia we went to the rolling mill to see them make railroad iron from their I went to tow hill. After that I went to Uncles. After supper we atrted for home. We got home at half past eight. Clowdy all day.    Thursday 19  I got up at six o’ clock. I was getting my things ready foe school. The sun was out all day.    Friday 20  I was at the house all day. The sun was out ll day. In the eavning I was to see C. Kendeg.    Saturday 21  I was around the house all day. The sun was out all day. In the eavning I stayed at home.    Middletown Sunday Sept. 22, 1861  I got up at seven o’clock and had breakfast. I stayed at home in the fornoon to pack my trunk. I went to Sunday school in the afternoon. I had potpy for dinner and for supper chicken and wafels. J. Weiting and myself took a walk then we went to the luthern church and we set up stairs. After church we went to our house and had some ice cream. The sun was out but it was very cold. Father started for Missoria at two o’clock in the morning.    Monday 23  I got up at six o’clock. I went out to the farm after breakfast. I took mother up town. After that J. Weiting, Delanson and myself went to the farm after that I fixed the trunks and had the girls pictures taken. I was near all fornoon in the bugg. I had fish and ice cream and water mellon for dinner. We left for Harrisburg at half past twelve. We left Harrisburg at half past one
Middeltown Monday Sept. 23, 1861  For New York. We got to New York at ten o’clock we went to the New Haven boat. We left New York at eleven o’clock for New Haven. We got to New Haven at four o’clock. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 24  We had the baggage taken to the depot and left it their. I went up to Yale colledge to see Haydon and Chapman. I was in the Gymnaseum, Lybrary, Cabinet Society Halls and all over the city. We left New Haven at half past ten for Hartford we got their at twelve o’clock. We left Hartford at two o’clock and arrived at Ellington at five in the eavning. The sun was out all day. I went to bed at half past eight.    Wednesday 25  I got up at six. I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Thursday 26  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Ellington Friday Sept. 27, 1861  I was in school all day. In the eavning we had a game of foot ball. The sun was out all day.    Saturday 28  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon we played football. The sun was out llday. I was in school in the eavning.    Sunday 29  I was in school in the morning. I went to church morning and afternoon. I was in school after church. The sun was out all day.    Monday 30  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 1 Oct.  I was in school all day. The sun was out ll day.    Wednesday 2  I was in school all day. The sun was
Oct. 2 out all day. I sawed wood after supper. I was in society all evening. I went to bed at half past eight.     Thursday 3  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I sawed wood in the evening. I was in school in the evening.     Friday 4  I was in school all day . The sun was out all day. I was in school in the evening.     Saturday 5  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed around the house. In the evening I was in school. Cloudy with rain.       Sunday 6  I was in school in the morning. I went to church morning and afternoon, I went to meeting in the evening. I was in school after dinner and after church. It was cloudy in the morning but cleared off by noon and it was warm.     Ellington Monday October 7, 1861  I was in school all day. It was cloudy all day. After tea, E. Warner and myself took a walk around the mountain square. We stopped at the cider mill and I drank a half a basin of cider. We got home in time for school. I was in school in the evening.     Tuesday 8  I was in school all day. It rained hard part of the day. It cleared off in the evening. I was in school in the evening.     Wednesday 9  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. After tea E. Warner and myself went to walk around the mountain square. We stopped at the cider press and got some cider. I was in society in the evening.     Thursday 10  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon the whole school went after chestnuts. E. Warner, B. Willson, A. Hyde and myself went partners and we got half a bushel of chestnuts.
Ellington Oct 10  We each got four quarters of chesnuts. It was clowdy in the fornoon but in the afternoon it was clear.    Friday 11  I was in school all day. Clowdy with rain all day. I was in school in the eavning.    Saturday 12  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I stayed around the house and studied some. I was in school in the eavning. It rained all day.    Sunday 13  I was in school in the morning to resite a bible lesson. I was in church morning and afternoon. I was in school in the afternoon till half past five o’clock. I went to Sunday-school concert in the eavning. It rained in showers the sun was out part of the day.    Monday 14  I was in school part of the day. The sun was out all day. I sawed wood in the eavning. I was in school in the eavning.    Ellington Tuesday Oct 15, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was in school in the eavning. F.B. Porter and myself got up at five oclock and and walked around the mountain square and did not get back in time for prayers.    Wednesday 16  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. We had singing school from one to two oclock. I went to put a window donw and hurt two of my fingers. I came near fanting. I did not go in school in the eavning.    Thursday 17  I was in school all day. The sun was out till four oclock then it rained for a few minutes. The moon was out in the eavning. I was in school in the eavning.
Ellington Friday Oct. 18 1861  I was in school all day. I was in school in the eavning. It rained all day.    Saturday 19  I was in school in the fornoon but did not speak. Their was a mitionary came in school with Mr. Fessenton and he spoke the rest of the fornoon, I stayed around the house all afternoon. It rained all afternoon and night. I was in school in the eaving to study my bible lesson.    Sunday 20  I was in school in the morning. I went to church in the morning and Mr Perkens a mitionary from Persia spoke. I was in church in the afternoon. I stayed at home in the eavning. E. Warner and myself went to his room and rosted chesnuts till meeting was out. I went to bed at half past eight. Clear all day and cold.    Ellington Monday Oct. 21, 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. It was cold all day. The sun was out to day. Their was frost this morning for the first time.    Tuesday 22  I was in school all day. I got up to study before five oclock. Their was a frost this morning. I was in school in the eavning. The sun was out all day.    Wednesday 23  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was in society in the eavning.    Thursday 24  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was in school in the eavning.    Friday 25  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day. I was in school in the eaven
Ellington Saturday Oct. 26 1861  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon Warner, Elmer, Felix and myself went to walk around the pinicle. After I came back we played ball. I was in school in the evening. The sun was out all day.    Sunday 27  I was in school in the morning. I was in school morning and afternoon. I wrote a letter in the eavning. The sun was out all day.    Monday 28  I was in school in the fornoon. In the afternoon I went to bed. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 29  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Ellington Wednesday Oct. 30 1861  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Thursday 31  I was in school all day. The sun was out all day.    Friday Nov. 1  I was in school all day.    Saturday 2  I was in school in the fornoon but did not speak. In the afternoon I sawed wood til tow oclock then Warner, Elmer, Felix and myself went to walk and we walked back of the pinicle we came home about three oclock so we went and washed before tea. I was playing corner ball till sun down and I layed down in the grass and caught cold. I was in school in the eavning. I went to bed at half past eight.
Ellington Sunday Nov. 3 1861  I was in school in the morning and recited my bible lesson and went to church morning and afternoon in the eavning I stayed at home.    Monday 4  I was in school in the fornoon in the afternoon I went to bed without Mr. Hall’s knowing it and I took a teaspoon and a half of jamaca ginger for a sweet but it did not make me any better it tightened my bowels so I would not opporate. I went to bed at half past eight oclock.    Tuesday 5  I went to school in the fornoon in the afternoon I went to bed and Mr. Hall sent for the doctor and I took six pills and it did not operate on me the next day the doctor gave me an interjection and that operated on me. He gave me three interjections.    Ellington Wednesday Nov 6, 1861  I lay in bed all but three weeks with the typhoid fever. I went to bed on the afternoon of the fifth and lay in bed till Saturday 16 I set up two hours then I went to bed.    [no entries Nov 7-16]    Sunday 17  I set up all fornoon in the afternoon I went to bed.     Monday 18  I was up all day to day but I was very week.     Tuesday 19  I set up in a rocking chair all day. I eat chicken at first but he stoped it and made me eat beef steak and I drank tea and coffee at meals and drank grape wine three tea spoons of wine to strengthen me.     Wednesday 20  I was in school up all day. I took a rid in the afternoon. I took a ride around the large square and Delanson drove. I had chapmans horse and buggy. The first time I rode since I was sick. The day was pleasant.
Ellington Thursday November 21, 1861  I was up all day. I did not go to ride today. I took a walk up to Mrs. Booth's and she gave me a goblet of wine. I stayed the boys at tea then I came home. N. Lindley stayed with me till twelve o'clock and I lay in bed.    Friday 22  I had my breakfast after nine oclock in the kitchen and W. Thompson told me N. Lindley might take me out riding with his horse and buggy in the fornoon. When he came with the horse Mrs. Nicholes was in the sittingroom and N. Lindley was to go along but he took two blue pills so he would not go and he offered Mrs. Nicholes his place and she went and drove the horse and we went around through mountain square and when we met Mrs. Kenney at the postoffice we got her in and turned around and went back and went around the large square about five miles. I had Mrs. Kenney on my knee the whole road. We left the house at a quarter of eleven o'clock and did not get back till half past twelve but we got back before Mr. Hall so we was in time for dinner. We had splendid fun. The sun was very warm today. In the afternoon I went up to Mrs. Books and I was there near all afternoon. She gave me a goblet t111 of wine before I left. I did not to bed late.      Saturday 23  I stayed in the house all day. It rained all day. I had company all day. I made a list of my clothes.    Sunday 24  I did not have my breakfast till half past eight. After all the boys had gone to meeting, I got some warm water and bathed all over with out Mr. Hall's knowing it.
Ellington Sunday Nov 24, 1861    I took a sleep after boys had gone to meeting. IN the eavning I had company. It was clowdy in the morning but clearer off and cold.         Monday 25    I got up at eight o’clock and had breakfast. It commenced to snow in the night and snowed till two oclock in the afternoon. The snow wa about four inches deep. The first snow their winter. In the afternoon Iwent up to Mifs. Booths and stayed all afternoon and before I left she gave me a goblet of wine. I was in Mifs Nichols room all eavning. I went to bed after nine oclock. The sun was out all afternoon.    Tuesday 26    I got up at eight o’clock and had breakfast at nine oclock. I had beef steak and milk toast. I had rost and boil potatoes for dinner. The sun was out all day and melted the snow. I went in Mifs Nichols room school and herd the physical geography class recit in the afternoon. IN the eavning I went to Mifs. Nichols room after prayers all eavning and I went after prayers again. I went to bed at half past nine.    Wednesday 27    I got up at seven oclock and had breakfast at nine oclock after breakfast I cleaned my skates. I did not go out this fornoon. In the afternoon I wrote a letter to mother. After three oclock Felix and myself went down to Ashleys and I got weighed and I weighed one hundred and nineteen pounds before I took sick I weighed one hundred and thirty seven pounds
Ellington. Wednesday Nov. 27, 1861    I weighed my coat and it weighed four. My sholl weighed four pounds and a half but I was tired by the time I got home and I had three sheets of letter paper full and Mifs Nichols directed the envelop and took it to the post office after dark. I had my supper at seven oclock I had milk tost for supper. I was in Mifs Nichols room all eavning. I went to bed at half past ten oclock/ Felix slept in my room all night. The sun was out all day it thawed the snow.    Thursday 28    I got up about eight oclock and had breakfast about nine oclock and I had chicken and milk tost. In the fornoon I cleaned my room about eleven oclock the boys went to meeting and I took a bathe and bathes all over and did not get through till one oclock. We had dinner about half past one oclock and we had turkey potpy, cranberries, potatoes, turnips, four kind of pie. After dinner I lay on the bed for some time. I was in Warners room in the afternoon. About three oclock Warner and myselfe went up to Mifs Booths and they ware just at dinner but we went in and stayed till after four oclock. After that I went to W. Thompson’s to see him about his horse and he took me in his house and gave me some brandy and sugar from their I went to Mifs Nichols room and we did not go down to tea so I stayed in her room till prayers I cut one of the fruite cakes and Mifs Nichols and myselfe eat cake for our supper the boys did not have tea just had cake. I went to Mifs Nichols room in the morning and her door was open so I went to the door and she was dressing and combing her hair so I struck for my room. The sun was out all day and the
Ellington Thursday November 28, 1861  Snow melted very fast. In the evening the boys went to a panorama. There was not any person in the house except George Buch, S. Hall and they went to bed very early. And Mr. Hall and Alford his brother. Mrs. Simonds, Mrs. Nichols and myself and Mrs. Nichols and myself stayed in her room till prayer time.    Friday 29  I got up at eight o'clock and had breakfast at nine. I had chicken pie and milk toast. After breakfast I got my lesson and read that near all fornoon and the rest of the fornoon. I was in Mrs. Nichols school room. We had oysters for dinner. In the afternoon I oiled my skates and after that I cleaned my box after that I went in Mrs. Nichols room from there I went to Mrs. Booths about foru o'clock and took tea there about five o'clock and did not get through till six. Then Jane Thompson came in and I left shortly after she came. I had for tea oysters, turkey, tea, crackers, currant jelly, pies, cake. I came home after six and it was pitch dark and Mr. Hall was not in the sittingroom so I went up stairs and from there I went to Mrs. Nichols room and took a patent office rep art bppl tjat mptjomg om bit fogures tp read amd she tryed to play the same game on me by giving me a book by the name trip to cuba and back and I looked in it at my room and found an envelope directed to a gentleman by the name of so I went to her room after prayers and I showed it to her and she tryed to get it of me but could not so she stood at the door so I could not get out before. I gave her the envelope, so I gave it to her but when I got to the door I snatched it out of her hand and left for the night but did not got to bed till twelve.
I plaged Mrs. Nichols about that envelope. The sun was out all day.      Saturday 30  I got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast at eight. I had turkey and milk toast and I had part of my turkey saved for dinner and I had cranberrys and toast for dinner. In the fornoon the first part I was in the sitting room in the afterpart I was in Mrs. Nichols room and she showed me some photographs of her class and her own so I pocketed hers but she did not know it then. After dinner I went over to W. Thompson's and he gave me a good brandy sling and I stayed there till near three. From there I went to Mrs. Booths and they were getting tea and Jane Thompson was there so we all eat together about three and did not leave the table till four. We had cold turkey, cake, tea, two kinds of pie and I came home about four o'clock. and went in the sitting room and stayed there for a short time then I went to Mrs. Nichols room and stayed there till tea bell rang. After tea I went to Mr. Hyde's room to sing with the Malodian and Willson played and Hyde. Felix and myself sang after that. I went to Mrs. Nichols room and stayed there till the prayer bell rang and Mrs. Simonds was there. All earning sewing so Mr. Hall would not see her sew on saturday night after she had gone the prayer bell rang so I started to leave but she went to the door and would not let me go out. She wanted her pictures but I run to the other door and got out so she was not to prayers and Mr. Hall asked if Mrs. Nichols was coming to prayers. I went to bed about eleven. I wrote this on saturday night. Early in the morning it rained
and snowed but it turned to snow and snowed till noon very hard but the sun came out and melted near all the snow that fell today.    Sunday December 1, 1861  I got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast at half past eight. After the boys had gone to church I went to Mrs Nichols room and one of the doors was locked and the other had not a lock but had a beaurea against it in the inside and I pushed it open and when I got in her clothes was on the floor and her room all upside down after dressing so I went out and fastened the door with a pair of scissors in the inside. I was going to play a trick on her and get a paper. After that I bathed all over and dressed and just got through by the time church left out. I got a basket at noon and did not eat any dinner but drank a cup of tea and went to bed. The doctor came about three o'clock and gave me a tonic to take before meals. The reason I took sick was that I had not any brandy on saturday or sunday and I lost strength. I did not get supper till seven and just before that I went to the kitchen and told Ben to bring some bread and butter and knife and fork to my room and I got Felix to toast some bread for me. I went to bed for the night at half past eight but could not sleep. Mr. Hall gave me something to sleep, but not till after twelve o'clock.      Monday 2  I got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast at nine. In the fornoon I went to Mrs. Nichols school room and was there till ten o'clock the rest of the fornoon I wrote letters. I did not have my dinner till two o'clock and I had oysters. I went up to Mrs. Booth's about three. I went after Mr. Hall about half past six for some one cent postage stamps and I was waiting in the sitting room for him to come out of Mrs. Simonas room and in a few minutes I heard him come out of her room very quiet and I thought he
was comming in the sitting and I found he had stopped so I started to go in and when I got to the door I found him and Mrs. Simonas at the sideboard in the dark and he had a hold of her person in some mannor and when they saw me they commenced to talk about some clothes and soon them came in the sitting room. From that scene, I went to Mrs. Nichols room and got her to direct some letters for me but before long Mrs. Simonas came in the room and before long she told Mrs. Nichols that she had done something and that was all she said about that. I stayed in Mrs. Nichols room till prayer time. The sun has been out all day but the wind blew very hard and it was very cold.    Tuesday 3  I got up at seven o'clock and had breakfast at ten and dinner at twelve. I went to Mrs. Booths in the fornoon. I went to ride about three with Chapmans horse and N. Lindley drove and we went around the mountain square and we stopped at Mr. Hammonds to get warm and they gave us some apples. After we got back, Mrs. Nichols and myself went to ride and we went up past the high school and through those woods and we had mud to go through but we came out at the grist mill and from there home. We just got to the house as the tea bell rang. I had splendid fun and Mrs. Nichols drove the horse. I was in Mrs. Nichols room all evening. I went to bed at half past eleven. The sun was out all day.    Wednesday 4  I got up at eight and breakfast at nine. I was at the table at noon but had my regular meal. I was in Mrs. Nichols room after dinner and Mr. Hall came to the door and when he saw me he went to go down stairs but I told him I was going in singing school so I left and he went in her room. I was in Mrs. Nichols room in the evening till prayer
Ellington Wednesday Dec. 4, 1861  Time. I stayed up till half past eleven. The thermometer was down to fourteen degrees below freezing point. The sun was out to day.    Thursday 5  I got up at eight and breakfast at nine. Mr Hall and Mr. Simmonds went to End field about ten and did not get back till six oclock and he left the fire in the setting room in my hands. I had my dinner at three oclock I had tea, three soft eggs, milk. Toast and desert. At four oclock Mifs. Nicols and myself went to Rockville and she drove and I got my hair cut and I baught eight lb of of Boston milk crackers we kleft Rockville after lights were lit. We came home by moon lite and arrived home at six but Mr Hall and Mifs Simmons got home a few minutes before we did. We got tea after we got back. I was in Mifs Nichols room all eavning but Mr. Hall sent for Mifs Nichols to come in Mifs Simmons room to hear him read a story it was done to see if she would go down but she went and I read the paper. Before this Mr. Hall and Mifs Simmons could not be found. When she came I left for the prayer bell rang. I did not go to bed til after eleven. The sun was out all day.    Friday 6  I did not do any thing of any account in the fornoon. I the afternoon I was in my room most of the time. IN the eavning I was in Mifs Nichols room and Mifs Simmonds and Mr Hall came in and he felt her pulse and looked at her tung and then he gave her some medicine. I stayed till I got ready to leave. I went to bed about nine for I did not feel well. Clowdy all day. Mifs Nichols was sick this morning.     Saturday 7  In the fornoon I went to the doctor after medicine. In the afternoon I was in my room. Mifs Nichols was not in school to day in her room all day some better. I was in her room all eavning.
Saturday December 7, 1861  and she read my storys in the Leslie to me and we was not interrupted tonight. I left her room at prayer time for my own. I went to bed at twelve o'clock.      Sunday 8  I was in my room all day. Mifs Nichols was on her bed all day and did not go to church. In the eavning N. Lindley and myself went up to Mifs Booths and got my silk hat and braught to the house after that I went to Mifs Nichols room and stayed till I thought meeting was out then I left for my room for Mr. Hall and Mifs Nichols Simonds was at meeting. I went to bed early to night. The sun was out all day.    Monday 9  I was at something all fornoon. Mifs Kenney came back about half past ten in the fornoon. I did not go to see her till after dinner and I stayed till half past two but she left Mr Halls in the afternoon for an other place in town. Mr “ cam to the room when I was their.    Ellington Monday Dec. 9, 1861  Mifs Kenney braught a bottle of sider for “ Nichols and myself. I was in Mifs Nichols room till the prayer bell rang.    Tuesday 10  I did not do mutch of nay thing in the fornoon for I did not feel well. In the afternoon about four oclock I took Mifs Nichols out riding and I had W. Thompsons mare and buggy he told me not to stop but I did at Doctor Peases to see Mifs Keney and from their we went around the mountain square and home and arrived at six. We eat our supper together. I was in her room all eavning. I went to bed after nine for I did not feel well. Clowdy all day.    Wednesday 11  I got up after eight for I did not sleep last night for Mifs Nichols wanted to say something to me about her room but she was afraid to mention it to me or I thought that was it and I could not sleep and got dreaming about it.
Ellington Wednesday Dec 11, 1861  I stayed in my room all fornoon. After dinner I went in singing from their I went to Mifs. Booths and stayed over an hour after that N. Lindley and myself baught two quarts of oysters of a man from Rockville. I went to tea and eat two peaces of toast and drank my cup of tea and came up to my room and N. Lindley and myself made oyster supper for our selves and I eat four plates. N. Lindley got the dishes and things out of the kitchen and got a quart of milk for the soop at chafeys and I prayed for it. After that I went to Mifs Nichols room and Mr. Hall called her to come and hear a story red so I left. I did not go to bed till late. It rained in the fornoonbut about noon the sun came out and clear.    Thursday 12  I went to Mrs. Booth's in the fornoon. In the afternoon I was in my room reading. In the evening I was in Mrs. Nichols room and Mrs. Simonds came in and she got another lite and she could not lite it so we was in the dark until Mrs. Nichols lighted it. Mrs. Simonas was afraid that Mr. Hall would come and find us in the dark but I think she put it out on purpose. After she went down Adelaide read to me one of the storys in my Leslie but she had to stop for N. Lindley came in and stayed till the prayer bell rang than we left. I went to bed at ten. The sun was out all day.    Friday 13  I did not get up until after the boys had gone in school. I had my breakfast near nine. N. Lindley eat with me. In the afternoon I was in my room. In the evening I was in Mrs. Nichols room all evening. The sun was out all day and and the ground thawed.    Saturday 14  In the afternoon I was in Mrs. Nichols. I washed all over in the afternoon. I got Chapmans horse and buggy about four o'clock and started for. Dr. Peases to bring Mrs. Kenney to Mr. Hall's to spend the
sabbath. I met her on the road and she got in the buggy and we went around the large square and from there home. We got to Mr. Hall's about tea time. Mrs. Kenney drove part of the time. In the evening I was in my room. The sun was out all day. Mr. Hall came to my room between twelve and eleven to tell me to put my light out and let my fire go out and not to make so much noise and he saw N. Lindley on the chair as if he was asleep and he asked him if he was a sleep and if he could not go to bed.     Sunday 15  I was in my room in the fornoon in the afternoon I went to church for the first time for over two months. After church I went in Mrs. Nichols room and stayed and talked till tea time with Mrs. Kenney. In the evening Porter and myself took a walk down street the moon was full. After meeting I went Mrs. Nichols room and Mrs. Kenney and her made some chocolate for us all before the prayer bell rang. We had the door locked so no person could see what we were doing. N. Lindley slept with me tonight. We talked in bed till near twelve.     Ellington Monday December 16, 1861  N. Lindley got up before I did. I helped him to pack his things for leaving school. In the afternoon I went with him to Mrs. Booth's to give them goodbye after that we finished packing. I was in Mrs. Kenney's room in the fornoon sometime. I was in Mrs. Nichols room in the evening after tea. N. Lindley slept with me and we did not go to sleep till near twelve. Mrs. Kenney put my ring on with a wish and I am not to take it off till the 22nd of February and if I take it off before that time I am to write to her and if I do not she is to let me know what the wish is by writing to me and wether it comes true.     Tuesday 17  Newton Lindley and John started for home this morning at nine and Mr. Hall took them to the vernon depot with his horse. After they had gone I was the rest of the fornoon fixing my room. In the afternoon I did not know what to do with myself. I felt like a lost sheep after Newton had gone. I was in Mrs. Nichols room in the evening till the prayer bell rang. The sun was out all day.     Wednesday 18  I commenced to study today for the first time since I was sick. I was in my room all day. In the afternoon I went with Mr. Lane beyond vernon with Mr. Hall's horse and buggy. We started about five o'clock and got
Ellington Wednesday Dec. 18, 1861    Back after eight. We went about twelve miles. We went Talkets mills. After I came back I went to Mifs Nichols room when I came to my room I found toast and tea on the table that the girls made for me I put it in the closet till Mr. Hall took the lites down the I eat my supper. The sun was out all day. I drove Mr. Halls horse.    Thursday 19  I was in my room studing. In the afternoon the same. In the eavning went up to Mifs. Booths. Clowdy most of the day.    Friday 20  I was in my room most of the fornoon and the rest of it was at Mifs Booths. In the afternoon I was in my room. In the eavning I was in Mifs Nichols and she red a story to me from the Leslie. In the morning it looked like rain by noon it cleared off cold and windy.    Saturday 21  In the morning I was in my room. In the afternoon I went to Rockville to see if my box came from home but it did not. I had W. Thompsons horse and buggy and I took Mary Simonds with me the thermometer in the eavning till half past seven.     Sunday 22  I went to church in the morning and Mr. Fesenden started about the puritans the day they landed. I did not hear the bell in the afternoon so I did not get to church. In the eavning I went to meeting and before they got half way through Mr. Fessenden dismissed because he was sick. The sun was not all day.     Monday 23  The first day of examination. I did not go in to hear them. Their was not any person hear but Spaldings brother and sister. I opened a can of peaches and after supper I gave Mifs. Nichols and Mifs Kenney some. In the eavning I went in school to hear the boys speak their was twenty spoke . After that we sang then Willson and Spalding sung laten songs. It rained all day and about eight o’clock it commenced to snow.     Thursday 24  The second day of examinations and now others preasant the last day of this term. Some of the boys went home this morning. I was around the house all day. In the eavning I went down to the Christmas tree in the church it was put up for the Sunday school scholars. I went down at seven. The preasants was
Ellington Tuesday December 24, 1861  all given to the scholars. The exercises was over by half past eight. When we got home we had prayers. After Mr. Hall went down with the lights, I went in Mrs. Nichols room and stayed there till near eleven o'clock. Mr. Smith took Mrs. Kenney home from the church. Clear but cold.    Wednesday 25  I got up at six. I was in Mrs. Nichols room before she left for home. She started at eight. I washed after they left and started for Dr. Peases at ten to see Mrs Kenney. I had some apples and cider then I went with her to Hammonds then I went home for dinner. We had chicken, potatoes and turnips for dinner. In the afternoon I was around the house. In the evening I went to singing school down town and did not get back till nine. I went to bed after nine. The sun was out all day.        *    Ellington Thursday December 26, 1861  I took Thomas Lee to the Vernon depot in Mr. Fesendens sleigh. We started at eight and did not get back till noon. And Delanson was along. The thermometer was eight degrees below this morning. In the afternoon Warner, Gray, Bristol, Covel, Clark, Felix, Delanson, Gardner and myself went skating on belches but it was not good. These are the boys that stay this vacation with Kellogg. In the evening we all made molasses candy in the kitchen and did not get through till nine o'clock. Then I went to my room and stayed up till ten. The sun was out all day. Mrs. Kenney came in the evening and stayed all night.    Friday 27  I did not go to prayers this morning for I did not hear the bells ring. I got up at seven and had breakfast shortly after. I was in Mrs. Kenney's room part of the fornoon. I tryed to get a horse to take her to the depot but could not so Mr. Hall sent her with his horse at noon. In the afternoon I was writing letters. In the evening I went to the lyceum and did not get back till nine then we had prayers. The sun was out in the fornoon and it rained. Then in the evening it blowed very hard and it was cold. I did not go to bed till ten.    Saturday 28  I got a box from home this morning at eight and Delanson and myself was in our room all fornoon opening and putting the things away. In the afternoon I washed and was in the school room. In the evening I stayed in the sitting room reading the tribune the rest of the boys went to meeting. We had prayers at nine but I was in my room writing till ten. The sun was out all day but blowed hard all day and freezing.
Ellington Sunday December 29, 1861  I was in church morning and afternoon. Mr. Hall told us to learn the 101 Psalm but only two recited it. I took a sleep after church. I wrote a letter home in the evening after prayers. We had peaches and cream in our room. I got the cream in the kitchen. The sun out all day and the walk slippery.      Monday 30  I was around the house all day but the rest of the boys went skating. In the evening we all went down to charters ditch to skate and Anna Gunn and Mrs. Pitkin was there. We came home at eight o'clock. Kellogg went with A. Gunn. Felix went with K. Pitkin. The sun was out all day.    Tuesday 31  I got up at six and had breakfast soon after prayers. Warner, Bristol, Kellogg, Gardner, Clark, Delanson, Felix and myself started for Hartford at seven o'clock in Thompson's wagon. We arrived at Hartford at half past nine. Warner and myself went together. We went on some business for Mr. Hall then  we got some things for ourselves. I bought two napkin
Ellington Thursday January 2, 1862  I was not at prayers this morning for we did not hear the bell and Ben came up to waken us. About ten Mr. Hall took Mrs. Simonds and the two girls to Endfield but he came back by half past one. Warner, Delanson and myself went to my room at ten in the fornoon and I got a pitcher of milk in the kitchen and dishes and we toasted over a half loaf of bread that I got from home and we made milk toast and we eat it all. We went from my room to dinner and we was the last ones to leave the table and the boys raised cain for there was not anyone there but the boys and Gardner found a worm in his bread. At half past one, Warner, Clark, Felix, Delanson and myself went to Moseleys and I beat Clark playing backgammon. Then Mrs. Mosley gave us popcorn, shelbarks. We came home by five o'clock and I eat supper. I went to see Mrs. Booth in the evening and Jane Thompson came and I got her ring and she tryed to get it of me but could not. I stayed till nine then I went home and the boys were in bed and the front door was locked, so I went to the kitchen door and went up stairs with my boots off but Mr. Hall did not know that I was out. The sun was out all day but the wind blew very hard all day.    Ellington January 3, 1862 Friday  I was up at Mrs. Booth's in the fornoon and I practiced one hour on the piano. In the afternoon I went to preparatory lecture. In the evening I went to the lyceum and the subject was resolved that ladies over thirty years of age are a burden to society and it was decided that they are a burden to society. I went to bed at ten. The sun was out all day.    Saturday 4  In the fornoon Felix and myself walked around the mountain square and we stopped at Decon Hammonds to leave some things that Mrs. Kenney wanted me to take up there. Then we stopped at Dr. Peases and Mrs. Peas gave us apples and cider. Then she told me some things about Mrs. Kenney. We got home by noon. After dinner I wrote some letters. Warner fainted this evening when the doctor was feeling his pulse. Mr. Hall put him in his room for the night.
