Transcript




Lancaster County Pa.  Before me a Justice of the Peace in and for the Borough of Columbia, County of Lancaster and the State of Pennsylvania, personally came John Q. Denney, who being by me [just or first] duly of [friend?] according to the law did declare and say as follows:"I was standing in Black's Hotel on the afternoon of Sunday the 28th of June 1863, when W. Robert Crane came and asked me if I would go along with his party on to the Bridge that he [and] E.K. Smith had been appointed by Col. Jacob G. Frick then commanding at Columbia to cut the timbers of the Bridge, to bore and charge the arches with powder in order to have it in such condition as to blow it up or otherwise destroy it in case our forces stationed at Wrightsville should be attacked by the rebels and repulsed. I told him I certainly would do everything in my power that was considered [acceptable] by Col. Frick. I with the others went on to the bridge with W. Crane, tore up the planking on one of the spans near the West End, cut off all the timbers that we thought of would have been safe to cut without destroying the possibility of our troops to [hop] over, bored and charged the arches with powder ready for the match if [acceptable]. Jacob Rich, John Lockard, Jacob Miller and myself were appointed to take charge of the lighting of the fuses but a short time, when Col. Frick came and notified us that our forces would retreat and our only safety was to blow up the bridge. In a few minutes our soldiers retreated and [hopped] over the Bridge and the order was then given by Col. Frick to apply the matches was done. Each of us four, Jacob Rich, John Lockard, Jacob Miller and myself had charge of a fuse and we applied the matches when the order was given; but the explosion failing to blow up or destroy the Bridge as was expected we then under [express] order from Col. Frick set fire to the Bridge by building a fire in the middle of a span near the place where we had charged with powder. We then retreated while the rebels entered the West end of the Bridge and endeavored to extinguish the flames and the Bridge was entirely consumed."  John Q. Denney Affirmed and [witness here] before me this 24th July 1863 David E. Brundy J Peace  Translated from Calligraphy by Christopher Vera, Director, Columbia Historic Preservation Society 2010



Lancaster County, Pa.  Before me a justice of the peace in and for the Borough of Columbia, County of Lancaster, State of Pennsylvania, personally came Robert Crane of Columbia, who being by me first duly sworn according to law, did depose and say, that in the presence of a written order from Colonel Jacob G. Frick of the 27th Pennsylvania Volunteer Militia, commander at Columbia dated 29th June, 1863, and also in pursuance of a verbal order from Major G. O. Haller of the United States Army, commander at York, York County, re Pennsylvania, I engaged a company of Bridge builders, carpenters, and other persons for the purpose of cutting and throwing the fourth span of the West End of the Columbia Bridge across the Susquehanna between Columbia and Wrightsville. And that in pursuance of such orders, we went upon the Columbia Bridge, cut the roof downward all the timbers excepting the arches and a small portion of the lower chords on Sunday the 28th day of June, 1863. We bored all the arches and charged them heavily with powder, attached fuses to the powder, and had them all ready for the matches. There were four men placed in charge of the matches and fuses on a given order. An order was given by Major Charles Knox, aid of Major Haller aforesaid, to me to apply the matches to the fuses which were accordingly done. When the blast went off it was effective but not sufficient to throw a span of the Bridge. There was no time to cut the spans down as the Rebel cavalry had entered the bridge from Wrightsville. Col. Frick then gave orders to the men to set fire to the Bridge which was done as directed, and it was burned down in obedience to his orders. The men in charge of the fuses and blast in the arches were John Q. Denny, John Lockhard, Jacob Miller (colored), and Jacob Rich. Captain Samuel Randall of the City Troop of Philadelphia, aid to Major Haller, had first been selected by Major Haller to deliver the order to me when to apply the match to the fuses. After our pickets were engaged in front of the rifle pits with the Rebels, Captain Randall came on to the bridge where we were engaged removing the timbers ec. and wished to know of sure if I understood that he Captain Randall was to deliver to me the order to destroy the Bridge. My answer was in the affirmative, when he said he did not so understand it so and said that I had better see Major Haller and have an understanding with him. I then took Captain Randall’s horse and rode out to the rifle pits to see Major Haller; when he Major Haller selected Major Charles Knox and detailed him and a few soldiers to aid him in delivering the order and to prevent confusion when [in] the Bridge. Major Knox performed the duties assigned him and gave the orders as above stated. On the morning of the 29th of June 1863 Major Haller called on me for my report which I made to him in writing, first submitting it to Col. Frick aforesaid for his approval which he gave after perusal with slight corrections, a copy of which report I have given to the Cashier of the Columbia Bank as amended by Col. Frick.  Robert Crane  Sworn and subscribed before me this 20th day of July 1863,  J. H. [Henitz?], J.P.  Translated from Calligraphy by Christopher Vera, Director, Columbia Historic Preservation Society 2010








Camp of 5th Regt PFC  Upton's Hill VA  JW1e 15th 1863  LEDER HOME TO PARENTS  To my Dear Parents; I suppose you are all in a great state of suspense in Penna. in  regard to the threatened rebel invasion. TI1e boys are all anxious to know and hear all  about it. We are expecting orders to move here now every minute. Hooker is now at  Fairfax C.V. about fourteen miles in front of us. Some say that we will be ordered to  Penna. I only hope we may as we would like to meet the rebels in the Old Keystone.  but for my part I do not think we will be ordered there. as we are more likely to join  Hooker. We are all confident that we will have another Bull Run Battle. If there is one  we will surely be in it.  I am glad that the Rebels are doing something to arouse the people of Penna. I only  hope that they may have every man that is disloyal to the North. and refuses to join  them. The Copperheads are a curse to our country. and are ten times worse than an  avowed rebel in arms.  I am a democrat myself but I am one that will sustain the stars & stripes right or  wrong. I consider the highest duty next to my God to support my country. and I will  do it as long as I can raise an arm in defense. TI1at party denomination "Copperheads"  should be doubly damned. They are worse than the Tories of the Revolution and will  eventually meet a worse fate at the hands of the Loyal but indignant people of the  North.  I have not time to write much but will scribble these few lines to let you know where I  am in the condition in which we are placed.  I suppose there are enough loyal people in Penna to protect their homes. if the Rebels  do enter the State If they do not turn out; I cannot wish them any better luck than to  have the State overrW1 with Rebels to give them a taste of the "Horrors of War".  I suppose before you hear from me again we will be in another Battle. Grandfather was  here. Rob went home with him in Recruiting service. I was in the City with them.. My  love to all the Family. Excuse this as I am all excitement tonight. Your Son. Y. Cayts  (REVERSE SlOE)  June 15th 1863  Transcribed by Suzanne Whallon Page 1




CIVIL WAR LUTER TO PARENT~ July 231861  New Creek Virginia. July 23rJ 186]  Dear Parents: Since I last wrote to you we have been traveling backwards & forwards. We have been  in Maryland one day and in Virginia the next. While we were in Piedmont we were treated well. in  fact. better than any place since we left home. The day before we arrived there. a fine bridge was  destroyed by a company of horseman of Virginians. nwubering three hW1dred & fifty. calling  themselves the "Black Rangers." We expected to meet them there on the day we arrived. as they had  given the citizens notice on the day before that they would be there on that day to draft & guess  them into the service of the Confederate States. They did not come. and all went well till Tuesday  evening when they made their appearance as thick as hops arow1d the ... . . . .. . The firing was  carried on briskly. Our company was stationed in the church and had it well barricaded and we  could have held it against 500 cavalry. Our pickets were out and were fired and returned the fire.  killing four of the rebels. and our company sustaining no loss. We did not know for sure that any  were killed till the following day when the dead bodies were found down by the side of the Potomac.  Two days before. on Sunday morning. two companies of the "Bucktail Regiment" in our Brigade had  [missing wordsl with 106 of the rebels. They killed six of them. one of whom was a Lieutenant. TI1e  Lieutenant had four balls put in him and he dropped. They all lay along the fence about a mile from  here with about two inches of covering upon them. We sent them word to come and bury their  dead. and one man came with a flag of truce and had permission so to do and returned for help. but  did not come back to attend to the bodies and so they were put in the fence corners. We staid [sic]  in Piedmont three days. and while there I fow1d out that there was a Printing Office in the place and  the editor had to leave so I got in the window and fixed up the office with the intention of  publishing a [paperJ ..... and had been at work for about two hours when our company was ordered  to New Creek so I had to leave the printers in Capt Trout's company from Bradford County. then  went in and printed a paper. I was very sorry as we had printers enough in our company to put out  a good paper. Freeman Mann & myself were to be the editors. If we ever get into a town again that  has an office in it empty we will publish one. I wish you would save the Rudettes every one of  them that has my letters in them. I did not get the one that had our "heifer" story in. I guess it was  directed to Bedford and was never forwarded. Opposite our encampment is a very high peak on the  mountain. about 1000 feet above the level of the Potomac. and our company determined to put a flag  on it. Not having one we got at and made one. We got an old (a couple of words are missing) shirt.  and a pair of blue over-alls. and made one of that. Twelve of us then started to climb the mountain  (I was one of them). and it took us three hours to get to the top. but we made it and cleared away the  trees. and nailed it on one high tree. and fired three rounds. and gave three cheers. It took us a half  day to go up and back. After it was raised the soldiers in camp gave us three cheers. and three for  the flag.  On Sunday morning last. Carl Weman and myself got on the cars and took a ride to Cumberland a  distance of twenty-five miles. I took my dinner at McKee·s. Mr. McKee was out in the country  Transcribed by S WhaUon  CIVIL WAR If rrER TO PARENTS July 231861  preachjng. We had a very good runner. Mrs. McKee gave me a quart of dried blackberries and a  quart of huckleberries. I brought them to Camp and stored the half of each for supper on Monday  evening, and I tell you we had a good time of it. We had a nice bean soup and our berries for a st@W  dessert. I am in a good mess Isid There are 8 in it and all good fellows. It is the Sergeants' Mess.  Bob is in it I am the cook and they all say I do first rate. If I like it I will keep on. I commenced on  Monday. They are to pay me $6 a month. For supper we are to have boiled rice and huckleberries  and cream, and coffee, bread. and other fancy articles. We expect to go back to Piedmont in a couple  of days and there receive our pay. We have not yet got any money and we have been hard put to  Isid to get any money to pay postage. We have to beg from one another. We are all well and like  our position. Direct to Cwnberland, as usual till further directed. My love to all the family. We  have a secessionist in camp as a prisoner. He was taken by our boys about 15 miles from here, while  horseback. We also have his horse. The Captain uses it.  Yours affectionately  W. Hayes Grier  Transcribed by S Whallon
