Transcript



Journal Continued by Theo. S. Christ Commencing Jan. 1st 1861.

January, 1861.  1st day pleasant, but very cold. Sleighing quite good, and town appears more lively. the River is nearly closed with ice. in the evening a small party went out to Laird Howard's, had a very pleasant ride and spent a pleasant evening. wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Still very Cold, and appearance of more snow, wrote to Sister Sarah  3 Day moderating, more snow, with rain. The whole Union is excited, because South Carolina has Seceded from the Union and declared herself free and independent. what action the President (James Buchanan) will take is not yet known.  4 Snowed nearly all day. Sleighing excellent. This day was appointed by the President, (J.B.) as a day for fasting and prayer for the preservation of the Union of the States. it was observed by some of our people, others would not recognize it, as they considered it was unecessary to keep the day for such a purpose. three of our churches were opened and divine service was held in them. Some few of our merchants etc., observed the command.  5 Day pleasant. Sleighing fine. Our town is quite lively. the remains of Miss Mary E. Wolfe was brought home from Georgia, also the remains of Wm. Wolfe's child.  6 Sunday, pleasant. Sleighing still very good. wrote to M. S. Pu.  7 Moderating very fast. Snow melting and sleighing gone. buried Miss Wolfe and brothers child. Funeral large. wrote to Dr. B.  8 Unpleasant with rain. walking very bad. town dull.  9 Snowed nearly all day, but not very cold. wrote to Dr. Curwen  10 Day cool, night stormy. Thomas Shoemaker Married Miss Harriet Gobin, all of Lewisburg. News came this evening that Mississippi has Seceded from this Union. Sleighing excellent.  11 Snowed all afternoon. News from the South indicate war. Maj. Robert Anderson has charge of Fort Sumpter and is for the Union, while all the other Forts in Charleston (S.C.) Harbor, are in the hands of the Secessionists.
2  January, 1861  12 Day cold and snowing. Sleighing excellent. News came to night that Alabama and Florida had Seceded from this Union. their is great excitement now throughout our whole Country, and all has arisen from the Slavery Question. Senator Toombs, yesterday at a dinner party in Washington City, insulted our noble hero of many well fought battles, Lieut. Genl. Winfield Scott. Toombs is certainly a traitor to his Country and deserves hanging.  13 Sunday, very cold. Said to be the coldest morning that we have had for 20 years. Ther. 27 degrees below zero. I had one of my ears frozen stiff and perfectly white, while going to my breakfast.  14 Still very cold. Ther. 12 degrees below zero, this morning. Snowed all day. in the evening, I attended a large party at H. Fricks.  15 Moderating fast, rain in the evening and all night. I attended a large party at Hugh McLaughlins, had a pleasant time. news from the South more moderate. Gov. A. G. Curtin Inaugurated to day.  16 Still raining, which makes the Sleighing look Squally. It rained all day quiet hard. wrote to Dr. Curwen  17 This morning being pleasant, 10 of our usual party took a Sleigh ride, we took dinner at Washingtonville, then went to Frintstown, where we took supper, stayed all night took breakfast and then started for Muncy, where we took dinner, then went to Uniontown and from there home. we had a delightful time, all well pleased with the ride, and everthing passed off pleasantly.  18 Returned from Muncy, it rained a little in the afternoon.  19 Day quite Moderate. Town rather lively. News from the South more moderate  20 Sunday Pleasant. Sleighing gone, evening cold. wrote to Mrs. Pu. and D. S. B.  21 Day very fine. Town lively, appearance of more Snow  22 Pleasant and moderating.  23 Day cold. Went to Danville with 10 other Masons, to attend the funeral of Capt. C. H. Frick, M. D.  he had served all through the Mexican War with distinction. we buried him with Military and Masonic honors. it was a grand display
3  24 Rained a little, then turned to snow and continued all morning. in the evening I attended a large and pleasant party at Wm. Camerons, Esqr. we had a delightful time. Sleighing excellent, wrote to Dr C-  25 Day pleasant and sleighing fine. Town quite lively wrote to Dr B-  26 Snowed a great part of the day. Sleighing very good. Miss R Campbell died   27 Sunday. day very cold. Sleighing excellent. Ther. 3 degrees below zero at 7 A.M.  28 Day pleasant. in the evening quite a large party of us went sleighing to Mifflinburg, had a pleasant time.  29 Day quite warm, snow melting fast. Town very lively.  30 Day very cold and stormy. Teachers Institute began to day. Town full of sleds with grain and c from the vallies. wrote to Hon. J. W. K.  31 Day very cold. Sleighing fine. Town very lively and gay. in the evening I attended a fine and pleasant party at Mrs Wm. Van Valzah's at the Cross Roads. I never knew more parties to be out at one time from Lewisburg, than there was this evening. Old and young, Married and single.  The past month has been one of great excitement throughout the whole U. S., occasioned by a number of the Cotton States Seceding from the Union, declaring themselves free and independent States and establishing (or wanting) new Confederacy's. the States that have Seceded, have had their U. S. Senators and Congressmen to resign their seats at the Federal Capitol. it has given rise to a great amount of talk and trouble. U. S. Forts have been seized by the traitors and rebels, and held by them in defiance of the Federal Government. Pres. Buchanan has been their tool for months, but is now taking advice from Gen. Winfield Scott and Republicans.  The following is a list of the States that have seceded and the time. South Carolina Dec. 20th 1860 - Mississippi Jan. 9th 1861- Florida and Alabama Jan. 11th 1861- Georgia Jan. 19th 1861- Louisiana Jan. 26th/61 Madness seems to rule the hour. I pray God will stay Dissolution.
4  February, 1861  1 Day cool with snow in the morning, rain at night.  2 Moderating, rained quite hard. Snow melting fast, sleighing poor.  3 Sunday. Day pleasant and quite warm. Sleighing gone. wrote to Ed.  4 Day very pleasant and moderating. afflicted with a boil in my nose.  5 Day cool. rained a little. Union meeting held to night in Independent Hall.  6 Day very pleasant, town lively and business good.  7 Forenoon warm. Afternoon cold and very stormy. at evening a regular North West snow squall and bitter cold. wrote to Em.  8 Day very cold. Ther. 12 degrees below zero this morning at 7 A. M.  9 Day cold but moderating. appearance of snow.  10 Sunday. Snow and ice melting very fast. rained a little to day.  11 Day pleasant and warm. Pres. Lincoln started for Washington City.  12 Very warm, with rain. Ice in the River broke up. River rising very fast. Snow all gone, frost coming out of the ground.  13 Day pleasant. River very high. ice running very thick and drift.  14 Day cloudy. warm and muddy. water falling in the River.  15 Very unpleasant with rain and hail. Mrs. Eve Shuck died aged 86 yrs.  16 Day pleasant. Mud plenty, raining at night, then snow.  17 Sunday. day cold and rough. buried Mrs. Shuck. She had but one child living and has left 8 Grand- and 40 Great Grand children.  18 Day cold and unpleasant. court Commenced full attendance  19 Unpleasant with snow.  20 Day pleasant. Court in session. Hon. J. H. Graham of Carlisle presiding.  21 Pleasant. in the evening I attend a pleasant Sociable at Jas. C. McClure  22 Day pleasant and warm. Quite a number of our Citizens have gone to Harrisburg to see President Abe. Lincoln who visits that place to day and to morrow- en-route for Washington. I attended a fine and pleasant Sociable at Mrs. Grier's in the evening. Town quite lively. Court still in session.
5  23 Unpleasant with rain. Court Adjourned. Pres. Lincoln arrived safely at Washington City this morning at 6 1/2 A.M. he was to visit Baltimore to day, but owing to this Secession excitement it was thought best to pass through in order to escape the mob that would have caused trouble had there been a demonstration in that City. the Mayor had refused to protect him with the Military. the reception at Harrisburg was a brilliant affair. it was estimated that there was 60,000 people in Harrisburg.  24 Sunday. Day quite cold, but pleasant.  25 Day very pleasant and warm.  26 Pleasant and warm. Wm Fowler died. wrote to M. S. P. Hons. S. and K.  27 Day quite warm and very pleasant. town dull. wrote to W. H.  28 Very pleasant and warm. attended Wm. Nagles Vendue. wrote to E. S.  Peace Congress that assembled at Washington City on the 4th and adjourned the 27th inst. have accomplished but little in seltting the difficulties that are now distracting our country.  March 1st 1861  1 Day very mild and pleasant, very warm indeed for this season of the year. John Gibson was married to Miss Kerstetter. wrote and sent my picture to Ed.  2 Still pleasant and very warm. River rising fast, snow on the mountain melting.  3 Sunday. very warm and sultry. River very high and still rising.  4 Day cool and pleasant. Abraham Lincoln and Hannibal Hamlin were safely Inaugurated as President and Vice President of the United States at Washington City. There were more people present than on any former occasion, and principally from the Northern States. every thing passed off pleasantly and in good order. the following gentlemen are in his Cabinet- Hons. W. H. Seward  N.Y. Sec. of State, Salmon P. Chase O. Sec. of Treas'y.,  Simon Cameron Pa. Sect'y. of War, Edward Bates Missouri Atty. General, Gideon Wells Connecticut Sec. of Navy, Montgomery Blair MD Post Mas. Genl. Caleb B. Smith Ind. Interior
6  5 Day very cold and stormy. River falling fast. wrote to Dr B and Dr St. Attended a pleasant party at Linns.  6 Still very cold, with snow. out to tea at Judge Walls'. the Presidents message well received by all intelligent persons as a well written and able inaugural. the South are somewhat displeased with it, because he is in favor of re-taking the forts, opposed to Secession and will enforce the laws.  7 Day cold and pleasant. attended a fine Sociable at Wm. Cameron Jr's.  8 Very cold and blustry.  9 Unpleasant with rain and snow. Mrs. Lewis Iddings died.  10 Day more pleasant. buried Mrs. Iddings. Funeral large.  11 Very pleasant and warm. William Ritter died aged 25 yrs.  12 Pleasant. Town very dull.  13 Day pleasant, appearance of rain. Buried Wm. Ritter. wrote to Dr H. C. S.  14 Unpleasant, snowed steady all day, about 8 in. fell. wrote to Hon. E. S.  15 Day very cold. Snow melting fast. Election day. wrote H. W. L.  16 Pleasant and warm. Snow all gone. Mud plenty. Town lively.  17 Day very cold and stormy. wrote to M. L. P.  18. Still cold and windy. roads very rough. Ice this morning quite thick.  19 Very cold in the morning.  20 Pleasant, in the evening our Sacred Music Association gave a Concert in the Baptist Church for the benefit of the Baptist Sabbath School. House was crowded full. We sang the Cantata of Ester. I was Hegai. all passed off pleasantly. Snow in the night.  21 Day cool. Town quite dull. wrote to Dr D. W. B.  22 Pleasant and moderating very fast.  23 Very pleasant. went fishing with a Sein, caught but a few. had plenty of sport.  24 Sunday. pleasant a part of the day, a snow squall in the Afternoon.
7  25 Day very pleasant and warm. Adjourned Court Commenced.  26 Warm with rain. went trout fishing caught but a few trout.  27 Day warm with thunder and heavy showers. Attended a pleasant party at Jonathan Wolfe's. Schools closed at College and Seminary.  28 Day warm and pleasant. Town quite lively!  29 Pleasant and warm.  30 Still pleasant, with wind. Court adjourned.  31 Sunday. Pleasant and warm. Easter. wrote to Em. C. D.  On the 27th B. F. Hursh was married to Miss Kate Wilson of East Buffalo.  April. 1861  1 Day cool. General moving day. Snowed hard nearly all day. In the evening I attended a large and pleasant Sociable at Jos. Musser's.  2 Still cool. Moving still the rage all day. wrote Bro. Ed.  3 Day pleasant, appearance of rain. wrote to Jno. A. W.  4 Pleasant and warm. Town very dull. wrote Dr H. C. L.  5 Very warm. Moving about over for this season.  6 Warm and Comfortable. Town very lively all day.  7 Sunday, pleasant.  8 Town lively and warm. The administration have decided to carry out the views of President Lincoln, and the appearances now are to mantain the rights of the Federal Government, and if we must fight to go at it in full earnest. the South have gone too far. The Appointment of Geo. W. Forrest as Post Master at this place was made known last evening in the papers.  it also secures to me the one half of the proceeds of the office. we are partners in the appointment, all is to remain in his name, as per agreement.
8  April Continued.  9 Day cool, but pleasant. Merchants receiving their goods. National affairs still warlike.  10 Very pleasant. Town lively. Nothing new from the South.  11 Day very warm. Hon. John Walls was married this morning to Miss Sarah Wilson, both of this place.  12 Day cool and unpleasant, in the evening rain. A large party at Jos. F. Linns this evening. was unable to attend, on account of Sickness. There was a Telegram came this morning from Washington City stating that Fort Sumpter was provisioned. this if true is glorious news, and hailed with much joy.  13 Rained hard all night and day. News came this evening that War had begun. Maj. Anderson had been attacked by the Rebels and had surrendered Fort Sumpter. his re-enforcements could not gain admission and was compelled to surrender.  14 Sunday. day pleasant and warm. I am suffering with Tonsilitis. wrote to Dr. B.  15 Day unpleasant, with rain. Was news to night. Calls for 75,000 Volunteers by order of Pres. Lincoln. Fort Sumpter is Surrendered and Maj. Anderson and his 70 men are on their way to New York by Steamer Isabel. on receipt of the news several of us young men assembled in my office and resolved to raise and organize a Military Company and offer our services to fight for Our Country and our Republican principles. we called a meeting in Independent Hall, had several speeches etc, and then came back to my office, where we had in a short time 24 able bodied men who came forward and offered their services immediately. we will get more to morrow and then we will send on to the Governor our willingness to go into actual Service, and demand our acceptance. The Democrats, (rather Loco-focos) are rather shy of late, as yet none have offered their services for their Country. wrote W. H. Y. Esq.
9  16 Unpleasant with rain. Most of the news last evening are confirmed. Our Company now number 33. we drilled this evening for the first time, and done quite well. we are anxious to raise the number required 77 and have here by Saturday next for Harrisburg, where we will receive our equipments from the State.  17 Day cool, with a little snow. Lewisburg all on tip toe and ready to do service. Our Company now number 65. we expect to start for  Harrisburg on Friday. Amt. of 1st 11 Months Practice $219.04  18 Day pleasant, war news exciting. Our Company Organized this evening and on my proposition the name was agreed upon we call ourselves the Lewisburg Infantry. I was elected unanimously Surgeon of the Company, also Treasurer of Company fund. The Citizens have agreed to support the families of poor men, they also handed over to me $219.04 for the use of the Company. we start to morrow moving for Harrisburg.  19 This morning our Company numbering 84 men left home for Harrisburg where we arrived at noon. we took dinner at Beuhler's Hotel  and then marched to Camp Curtin 1 mile from Harrisburg, where we were marched to our quarters and went to work to pitch our tents. we found here about 3000 men, ready for duty. they left for different 20th quarters. On Saturday our Company was regularly sworn into service. J. W. Chamberlin was elected Captain, G. H. Hassenplug 1st Lieut. and J. M. Linn 2nd Lieut. we were not allowed to have more than 77 men. the balance were discharged. Soldiers still arriving from every quarter, all excitement go where you will. wherever we go we are heartily cheered on our way.   Lewisburg was all on tip toe when we left home. the Rev. Reese delivered an address to us at the Depot before we left. we were accompanied there by all our friends, old and young, men, women and children. we recd. many good prayers for our safe return, many tears were shed at our parting. the time will long be remembered by all.
10  21 Sunday. day pleasant. To day our Company were enrolled into the 4th Regiment of Penna. Volunteers. the letter was given to our Company. G. is our name. I went down to the Capital and had an interview with the Gov. A. G. Curtin and Col. E. Slifer, at 4 P.M. I was appointed Assistant Surgeon of the 4th Reg. of Penna Vol. My Commission was made out immediately and I was ordered to leave with the Reg. which started at 5 P.M. we went in cars to Phila. there we remained untill Monday Morning. this day will be long remembered by me, it being my birth day. Camp Curtin was all alive all day. Sunday was not observed.  22 Day warm. this morning we left Phila. passed through Delaware, and into Maryland where we stopped at Perryville opposite Havre-de-Grace. here we stationed our men along the line clear up to Wilmington Dale in order to protect the Rail Road and the Depot. we also had a good many men on the sick list so we established a Hospital at this point. we were kept busy with the sick all the time here. at night there was a man shot by the name of Rapevine by a sentinel. he would not give the pass word, and therefore he met his death. he was sent to Norristown, his home.  23. Very warm. to day we prescribed for at least 50 patients. Some seriously ill. we got along with them right well.  24 Still warm. Hospital well crowded with patients. to day we were called upon to make an examination of another Norristown man who committed suicide by cutting his throat, he had wandered some three miles from camp. cause unknown. to day nearly all our Regiment left on Steamer Phila. for Annapolis, where we arrived after some 8 hours ride, distance 80 miles.  25 Warm and pleasant. we are now encamped at Annapolis and there are some 6000 soldiers here from R.I. Mass. N.Y. and Penna. the excitment here is very great indeed. this is a beautiful place and where the Naval Academy is located.
11  26 Day very warm. Vegetation is very far advanced at this place. the grass is quite high and trees of all kinds are in blossom. this is a most lovely spot where the Naval School is located. the grounds contain about 50 acres and are fenced in with a high brick wall. Situated on the Banks of the River Severn, about 40 miles from Washington City and 30 from Baltimore. Annapolis itself has some very ancient and dilapidated buildings in it. the place is very old. contains about 4500 inhabitants and is very irregularly laid out. it is the Capital of Md. One week ago the people were nearly all Secessionists, but after the first Regiment of Volunteers arrived many of then turned and are now strong for the Union. there are now about 10,000 Soldiers at this point, getting ready to march to the Capital. One of our men Henry Browne attempted to cut his throat to day, but did not succeed. he had an attack of insanity. I have him now in charge.  27 Still very warm and sultry. the parade ground is still full of military. We have now established a Military Hospital at this point and have quite  a number of patients. none however seriously ill. the New York Regiment furnish us with a great many cases of Mania Potu.   We are still waiting here for the balance of our Regiment.  28 Sunday. Rain in the morning and quite windy all day. The day did not seem like the Sabbath at home, where all is quiet and peace on this Sacred day. Soldiers were drilling all day. in the evening our Chaplain had Service in Fort Severn. I was on my road there, but was obliged to return with three patients of our Regt. to the Hospital. I was detained there some time and was unable to hear the Sermon.  Two men were arrested to day suspected of being spies, and placed in the Guard house for examination and trial.  29 Warm and pleasant. the balance of our Regiment (3 Companies) arrived safely this morning all in good spirits. a few on the sick list and one man with a broken clavicle. we dressed it and sent him to the Hospital. we are now waiting for our Uniforms which we expect
12  in a few days, then I hope we will move on to Washington. The engineers of our Camp and soldiers are making a Rail Road from Camp to the R. R. Depot, through this place, for the transportation of Soldiers, baggage etc. to Washington. troops are still arriving daily. At 9 P.M. we were called to arms by the beating of drums, it was rumored that the guards on duty were attacked, but it proved to be a false alarm. all were ready for any emergency in a very few minutes and formed into companies ready to march and meet the enemy if there was one to be found. orders were soon given to march to quarters when all was still in a short time. wrote J. C. and J. M.  30 Day very cold and stormy. we moved our quarters from No 5. to No 7. to make room for another Hospital. the building we occupy is a fine three story brick House new, and was used by one of the Proff's of the Naval School. To day I noticed the Boston Artillerists drilling.   they are very quick in all their movements, and are able to do much execution in a short time. The Penna. troops are learning to drill very well and will soon be able to drill with any of the N.Y. or Mass. Regiments, we are very much in need of our equipments for our troops. we look rather shabby and I am ashamed that it is so, but thank God we have brave hearts and are willing to do as much for our noble Country as the best uniformed troops in the world.
13  May, 1861  1 Day very cold and stormy. we were compelled to have fire made in the house, it was very cold indeed. Col. Ellsworth's Zouaves, of N.York arrived to day by Steamer Baltic. Camp quiet, very little going on more than regular military drill and camp life.  2 Still cool and windy. Col. E's Zouaves were landed to day 1100 strong, also the 5th Regiment of N. Y. both Regiment were shipped to Washington, those Zouaves are all fine men and are the hardest crowd I ever seen. they done a great amount of stealing and damaged property to a considerable extent in the Camp and in Annapolis, and was here but a few hours. all hands were glad when they left. Camp is and has been quiet all day. Drilling was attended to as usual.  3 Day unpleasant with rain and wind, very disagreeable indeed. Sent package to D.S.K. and P. Geddes. Am still kept busy with the sick. Nothing very serious on hand. Maj. Anderson arrived in Camp this evening, accompanied by an escort of armed men.  4 Still raining with snow, very unpleasant, afternoon clear and  moderating. the Uniforms of our Privates of the Regiment came this evening. Our men were very well pleased to know they had arrived.  5th Sunday. Pleasant. this morning the Uniforms were given to our troops. Considerable dissatisfaction exists among the men and officers, as regards the poor and miserable things our State has furnished for the men. I consider it really a shame and disgrace for Penna. to send our men such unbecoming uniforms. This morning after visiting the sick, I went to the Navy Chapel and heard the Episcopal Service read by the Chaplain of the 13th Regt of N. York. here I found drums piled around the pulpit and muskets standing all around the room. also knapsacks, canteens, cartridge boxes etc. lying on the floor in all directions. it looked quite different from home. while at Church here I went with Medicines in my pockets, Pistol and knife in another.
14  and with a woolen shirt on instead of a white one. 3120 troops arrived here to day by Boat from N. Jersey, and they were the best equipped men that has passed through this place. this evening I again went to the Chapel and heard our Chaplain S. W. McDaniel preach, he delivered an excellent discourse and good order was observed. it was truly a solemn sight to see the Soldiers lying, sitting and standing as best they could and listen to the sermon, all ready and equipped for actual service if necessary at a moments warning. Made out two certificates and discharged two of our soldiers Emory Hulton and O. P. Steele from Company H Capt. Snyder of Centre County, because they were in delicate health and unfit for duty.  6th Day unpleasant with rain. there was very little drilling done to day, on account of the rain and storms. There was another Schooner captured to day, having on board stores for the South.  7th Very pleasant and warm. To day in company with some of my friends I visited the Capitol buildings of Md. I stood on the same spot where the illustrious Washington stood when he resigned his Commission, the building is old and has not been change since, except the new furniture. I also came in possession of a piece of Canon or long tom, that was buried in the Bay for many years and now placed in the Capital.  8th Very warm but pleasant. the 20th Regt. of N. York arrived to day. they were not all equipped, and intend remaining here until they are fully uniformed. at 1/2 past 10 A.M. our Regt. was ordered off to Washington, at 12 N we all hurried up our regimentals, packed our trunks in double quick time, and was ready to move at the hour. we left the Annapolis Depot at 2 P.M. and was detained a great deal along the road. we arrived safely at Washington at 6 1/2 P.M. all along the road squads and

7th  The following description I found above this Cannon (or long tom) in the Capitol at Md. "It was presented to the State of Maryland by the Rev. Jos. Carburry Feb. 18th 1841. This is one of the Cannon brought to Md. by the first settlers under Lord Baltimore. It was taken out of St Mary's River in 1824, by Capt. Thomas Carbury. "The State presents it as a relic-link, connecting the past with the present."
15  companies of Soldiers were stationed to protect it from any Secessionists that might undertake to destroy the track. at the  Annapolis junction we found the 8th Regt. of N. York, stationed and encamped, a few miles beyond this on the Baltimore R. R. at the Relay House is another part of a Regt. stationed. all under the supervision of Genl. Bulter of Mass. The country  from Annapolis to Washington, is a barren and rough farming region, and not worth much money in my estimation. as we neared Washington, about five miles from the City I notice the beautiful residence of Clark Mills, the celebrated Sculptor, a few miles further on I noticed many fine residences and some few good farms. Our Regt. was cheered very heartily while marching into the City. part of our men were quartered in the Congregational Church. the balance in the Washington Assembly Rooms. Our Staff took rooms at the Lichan House. I retired to bed early, because I was very much fatigued. I had a matrass to sleep on for the first time since I left home, and the first time I took off my clothing to sleep.  9th Day very warm. I find it very dusty here and any Amt. of troops, there are now over 35000 soldiers here in and around this City. I was kept quite busy with the sick this morning. in the afternoon I dined with my friend C. M. Hall at Gautiers Saloon. we had a splendid dinner. afterwards took a walk to Willards Hotel and inspected where the fire was, this morning, also where Col. Ellsworths Zouves done such good service. then after that we took a ride in company with Jms A. Green to the Camp of the 7th Regt of N. York. while at Willards I had the pleasure of seeing Maj. Anderson also Senator Wilson of Mass. I also had the pleasure of seeing to day and conversed with Miss Dorothea Dix the Philanthropist.
16  She is a magnificent woman. She is now and always has been interested in the welfare of the soldiers. My uniform came to day.  my regimentals cost me about $80.  10th Unpleasant with rain. To day I dined with Jno. A. Green at Willards Hotel. we had a splendid dinner. I also had the pleasure of seeing Maj. Anderson again. Also the Hon. Carl Shurz. he is a sharp featured and fine headed German, and stands high as a Scholar and patriot. the city is very lively to day. wrote to M. P. K.  11th Very warm all day. this morning after visiting all the sick in the Regt. I toolk a walk up to and through the Presidents House, then to his stable and seen his span of horses that cost $2000. I also seen his carriage, all of which is of the best. then went through the public grounds, and I do think they are the handsomest that I have ever seen. I also seen Hon. Daniel Sickles house, and the place where he shot Key. also the tree which the ball lodged in. I cut off a piece of the bark, then I took a stroll to Washington's Monument yet unfinished. I examined the blocks of marble there. also the Copper block from Michigan weighing 2100 pounds and worth $1000 all there was presented by the different States and countries. all very fine and beautiful. the monument is now 174 feet high, and is being built by the Ladies of these United States. from there I returned to my quarters, after first trying my pistol, which proved good. in the evening I met Col. E. Z. Judson, better known as Ned Buntline, he says he has 1500 lumbermen on the road here from the northern part of N. York, all armed with Rifles and bowie knives, he himself commanding the whole force.
17  12th Sunday warm and sultry. in the morning I called to see a number of friends that are here from Penna. Some are soldiers and others citizens. in the afternoon our Chaplain preached to the Regiment. in the evening I went to the Unitarian Church and heard them play the Star Spangled Banner on the Organ. it was quite a treat.  13th Still quite warm. To day I visited the Surgeon General of the U.S. Army. then I went to the War Department. then to the Presidents House, and had the pleasure of seeing the President and his Cabinet, A. Lincoln and  Son, the Hon's. Cameron, Chase, Seward, Bates, Smith, and Lehman Marshal of this District. Also Gov. Sprague of R. Island. they reviewed the troops belonging to this District. I paid but little attention to the soldiers, because I was more deeply interested in watching the countenances of this body of illustrious men. they all looked considerably care worn, and I was surprised to see they looked as well as they did. to night there was a large fire. said to be in Georgetown.  14th Day still warm. Our sick are doing right well. there is but that are any ways dangerous, those we sent to the Hospital. I have no news to record to day.   15th Day quite cool. To day we recieved two large boxes of underclothing and eatables from the Ladies and friends of Lewisburg. Could the donors of those things been eye witnesses to the reception of them by our boys, they would feel as if they had been paid ten fold.  Cheer after Cheer went up for the Ladies and Citizens of home for those gifts of kindness and usefulness. they fairly made the old church where they are temporarily quartered ring ready to burst its walls, a happier sett of boys never was seen, than on this occasion. At night I went to the Theatre along with others. wrote to J. [Schreyer], Priscilla and [Tom] Evans.
18  16th Day warm and pleasant. To day I visited the Capitol Buildings. I examined the building also the paintings etc. and was well pleased with my visit. I will not attempt to write a description of what I seen there, suffice it to say that the Capitol and grounds are magnificent, and it will amply pay any one to visit this massive structure. At present the Hall's of the Representatives and the Senate Chamber's, old and new, are now occupied as barrack for the Federal troops. Seats that were once, (and will again be) occupied by our learned Statesmen, are now used as seats for soldiers, some engaged in writing to the loved ones at home, some cleaning up their muskats, while others are amusing themselves by playing cards.  17th Very windy and dusty. This afternoon I visited the Smithsonian Institute. there I found a large and splendid collection of prepared Birds, Snakes, toads, fishes and Animals of all kinds. I also examined Stanley's picture Gallery, where I found a collections of portraits of all the Indian Chiefs for years past. among the number was the renowned Billy Bowlegs.  I also found a fine collection of chemical apparatus, most of it presented by Dr.  Robert Hare of Phil. the Library here is very large and contains works from all nations, and published in all Languages. I also noticed some very ancient paintings, some over 340 years old. Here I seen a large Metiorite from Mexico, weight 252 lbs. its composition is of Nickle and Iron. A curious dress is here exhibited, made out of furs, with a covering for the face, and is the one worn by Dr. Elisha Kent Kane in the Artic Regions. I could have spent days here and been interested, but my time was precious and having other duties I was compelled to go away without examining all on exhibition here.  18th Warm and pleasant. the Arms of our Regiment were examined to day by a United States Officer. in the evening there was considerable excitement in front of our quarters. it was caused by a man
19  residing here, and was a rank secessionist. he insulted a few of our soldiers, and they just arrested him and brought him to our quarters. there was a meeting held in regard to him and was sent to head quarters to have a further hearing. Our boys were very much excited about the matter and they shouted hang him, hang him, but our Officers interfered and took him in hands.  19th Sunday pleasant. This morning I attended Presbyterian Church and heard the Rev. Sunderland preach. in the evening I heard the Rev. Dr Bellows of N. York preach in the Unitarian Church. both were full of good union sentiments. the secessionist that was arrested last evening was released to day, could prove nothing against him. he was Considered non-Compus-Mentus. wrote to Priscilla and Gust.  20 Day unpleasant with rain and very cold. no drilling done to day. Stayed close to quarters and therefore have no news.  21 Pleasant and comfortable. drilling was resumed as usual. in the evening I attended a large party at Wm. H. Sewards Sec. of State, in Company with our whole Staff. we all received separate invitations. it was a gay affair. I noticed nearly all of the high officials in attendance. Dancing was on the programme. I enjoyed myself very well.  22 Cool and pleasant, at 12 M. I went to the P.O. department and there seen the President of the U.S. raise the American flag amidst thunderous applause over the building, after which I heard Pres. Lincoln, Hons. Seward, Blair and Smith deliver addresses. the Audience was large and very quiet, when any talking was done, all left well pleased with the exercises. in the evening I noticed Pres. Lincoln and Son riding in their Carriage. his turn out is splendid. J. W. Musser called to see me to day. I was pleased to meet him. in the evening we went to the Theatre together with Capt. Chamberlin and Yerkes.
20  23rd Day very warm. I was agreeably surprised to day by seeing Dr. T. H. Wilson and Son and P. Goodman, who called to see me. I had a pleasant chat with them, about home and friends. two of our companies went to camp to day. the balance goes to morrow. took a walk with Dr Wilson, Musser and Chamberlin. wrote to Jennie C.  24 Still very warm. Last night about 10,000 of our troops were sent away from here to different sections of country. about 4000 went to Alexandria Virginia. Among the rest were Col. Ellsworths N. York Zouaves, proceeding up town. Col. E's saw a Secession flag waving over the Marshall House, kept by James Jackson, a well known Secessionist. Instantly entering the house, with four or five of his men, Col. E. proceeded to the house-top, tore down the flag, and trampled it under his foot. when he came down with the flag, Jackson shot Col. E. through the heart, he fell dead upon the stairs. he then shot at Brownell, a Zouave who was with Col. E. Brownell then discharged his musket into Jackson's brain, bayoneting his body as he fell, pinning it to the steps. There it laid up to 9 A.M., under a guard of Zouaves, who will permit no one to remove it. Col. E's body was immediately brought to Washington by six Zouaves in the Steamer James Guy. There is great excitement in the city, and the Zouaves are wild and want to go right at work upon Alex. but they are kept back by their officers.  To day I seen a Revolutionary Hero. is name is John Leach. he was a drummer boy in 1777.  will be (if he lives) one hundred years old on the 10th of Feb. next 1862.  The balance of our Regiment went into camp to day, about 3 miles from Washington. we have a very fine camp on Berry's farm. I have now a large Hospital tent for my sick and Drugs, capable of holding about 40 patients. I am also kept quite busy.
21  25 Day still warm, heat very oppressive. I had the pleasure of a visit from my friend John B. Linn Esqr. he gave us all the news from home.  Col. Ellsworth's body was sent to N. York today under a guard. the man Jackson that was shot by Brownell, who owned this flag was a Landlord.  Brownell was in the funeral procession, with the Secession flag around him and the blood still on his pantaloons. Great crowds rushed to see B. and the flag. news to day, say that Genl. Bulter marched to Sewells Point, near Alex. and attacked that place, killing 300 Secessionists and losing 80 of his own men. the War has no doubt commenced in earnest. our Regiment are anxious to show their bravery also, and I am sure will do good execution.  26 Sunday. It is getting warmer and warmer every day. quite a number of our men, have had sun stroke. I went to the city this Afternoon and visited the sick we have there. the evening I spent with  J. B. Linn and J. W. Musser.  27 A fine shower this morning, was very acceptable indeed. at 6 1/4 this morning we lost the first man by sickness. his name was David Knipe, from Norristown. he died of Typhoid Fever. his body was sent home in the afternoon. I returned in the evening to camp. wrote Bro. Ed. and Priscilla.  28 Day very pleasant, and comfortable. Sick are getting along very well. I have my Hospital very comfortably arranged. the most sickness now there, is patients with measles. wrote to Dr Bland.  29 Still Pleasant and cool. Camp very lively. quite a number of visitors called to see us to day. we are expecting marching orders every day.  30 Very warm. Today my Friend Wm. Frick called to see me. Dr Dunlap and myself discharged 12 men to day unfit for military duty. they all bid me good bye and thanked me for my kindness to them while under my care in the Hospital. many of them wished to stay, but they would be no use here.
22  31 Day very pleasant and warm. I dined with friend Wm. Frick to day at Willards Hotel. I noticed quite a number of aquaintances there and had a long chat with them. The New York 7th Regt. returned home to day, their time of enlistment having expired. In the evening I returned to Camp. Genl. S. Cameron Sec. of War and Judge Casey visited our Camp this evening. I was glad to see them and had a long chat with both. Casey made a few very appropriate remarks to our men. they were well received. Cameron gave me a pressing invitation to call and see him. Discharged 7 more men to day, on account of sickness.  June. 1861.  1 Very warm and sultry. Dr Hull visited me to day. I sent a box home by S. s. Express- containing clothing etc. We received this evening by Express several large boxes containing eatables etc. from our kind friends at home, they were welcomed by all, with a hearty good cheer. we opened them and divided them around to the boys, the freight was $16.12. wrote to Priscilla.  2 Sunday very warm and sultry. in the evening rain. Spent the whole day in Camp. Our Chaplain preached in the evening. we also had some excellent singing among our own company. we all helped what we could. the following is one of the hymns.  When my body lies mouldering in the grave,  When my body lies mouldering in the grave,  When my body lies mouldering in the grave,  And my spirit has gone to rest.  (rest.)  Oh sister will you meet me,  Oh sister will you meet me,  Oh sister will you meet me,  On Canaans happy shore.  Yes Brother we will meet you. (3 times Repeat) On Canaans happy shore.
23  This hymn is and has been quite a favorite amongst us all ever since we left home. we have sang it wherever we have been, and sing it still and I hope may continue to sing it as long as we live. when we left Harrisburg in the Cars, not knowing our destination and but poorly prepared for battle in case we met the enemy, it was sung with a feeling heart and the conscience of doing our Country's service. I must confess it brought more tears to my eyes than any other hymn I have ever helped to sing. it was new to me, and it still is fresh in my memory, and I often find myself singing it. I really love it. It is Simple and pure. Hospital duties were not so pressing to day. Our boys all enjoyed a good dinner to day, from the good things our dear friends sent us from home. wrote to Priscilla and Jennie C.  3 Day warm and sultry, with occasional showers. to night Company A. Capt. Bolton was ordered from Camp to reconnoiter in this vicinity, as it was reported that the rebel's intended attacking us in the rear from the Rail Road. all hands were ready for the enemy. we also received orders to be ready to march to morrow evening and if not countermanded we would certainly leave here. I had an attack of Dysentery this morning. am feeling better this evening.  4 Day unpleasant with showers. Another of our companies was sent out to day as guards to a bridge in the neighborhood of Bladensburg. it was expected that Maryland Secessionists would attack us, and these Companies were ordered there as guards and would then report to our Camp immediately, when our whole force would be sent there. there are at these different posts over 1000 troops, two companies from each Regiment around Washington, besides some regulars and several Artillery Companies. we are on the look out for them and ready at a moments notice. many of our men have volunteered as independent Scouts. each on his own house, they are anxious for a battle. wrote to N.V. and G.B.B.
24  June Continued.  5th Still raining and continued all day and night. The Companies sent out as Scouts yesterday have returned to Camp and others have gone in their place. the cause of all this is, that there are a great many Maryland Secessionists lurking about Bladensburg, waiting for a favorable opportunity to attack us. we are watching them carefully and will arrest them as soon as they show their colors. to night our Lewisburg Infantry went, all but 7 who were left as guards to their tents. the rain came down in torrents when they left and continued all night. Camp is quiet. all in good spirits. wrote to Dr B. and C.C.S.  6th Still raining hard. the men are all in their quarters, except those on guard and those that are out Scouting. Our boys retd. this morning and others again sent out. we expect Harpers Ferry to be attacked every day, and if the Secessionists retreat, they must come this way, and if they do we will give then a warm reception, and try the courage of both parties most effectually. we are ready for them and waiting to receive them. wrote to Wm. A. S.  7th Day very warm and sultry. Camp is unusually lively to day. the reason for all this is, that the new uniforms, knapsacks, canteens, caps, shoes and under-clothing have arrived. the sick are doing very well and our men are generally healthy wrote to Ag. D.  8th Morning very hot. Afternoon we had a severe storm accompanied by Hail and rain. it thundered loud and lightning flashed very vividly. the new Clothing was distributed to day. it now gives general satisfaction. wrote to Annie L.  9th Sunday. Day very warm and sultry. In the afternoon our Townsman Wm. Cameron Sr. Esqr. visited our Camp accompanied by Col. Jos. Cameron, Jno. B. Packer, Col. Campbell and others. they were well pleased with our Regiment and especially our own Lewisburg Infantry. the health of our Regt. is very good at present. we have now but six in the Hospital. we still have scouts out day and night.
25  10th Very warm and sultry. To day we had dress parade as usual. our men were all out in their new uniforms, and really they looked as well as any soldiers I have seen since we are in the Service. they are now fully equipped with everything of the best. they are all feeling fine and in excellent spirits. Our Lewisburg Infantry went again on a scouting expidition this evening. wrote to Bro. Geo. and Jno.  11th Day pleasant and warm. To day we sent for the Milton Cornet Band. In the evening Capt. Chamberlin and myself called to see the family of Col. Brooks near our Camp, where we took tea with the family and spent the evening very pleasantly. he has two very fine Daughters and they made themselves very agreeable in deed. we promised to call soon again. I wrote to Hon. E. S., Priscilla, Thos. G. E.  12th Day very warm and sultry. This evening we raised another fine flag in Camp. Several very patriotic speeches were delivered by a number of our men. our Scouts brought in what they supposed to be a  Secessionist. he was examined and questioned very closely but could not be detected as such. he declared he was a Union man so we left him slide. We have been feasting for some time on the most delicious Strawberries that I ever seen. they are very plenty and cheap only 12 cents a quart, with sugar and cream.  13 Day very pleasant. Captain C. and myself went into the City and spent the evening there. wrote to Aunt Lucy, Dr. Levi Rooke, Sallie E. C., Our Band for the Regiment came to day. it is the Milton Cornet Band. we pay them $350 per month. they were welcomely received by us, and are a great addition to our Regt.  14th Day pleasant but very warm. nothing new in camp to day.  15th Very sultry. in the Afternoon three of us packed up our knapsacks and went over to the Eastern Branch Bridge of the Potomac. took with us our fishing tackle and had some fine sport fishing. distance about 4 miles, in the evening our own Company came to guard the Bridge. we returned to camp next morning. Garibaldi Guards captured 2 Secessionists.
26  16th Sunday. very warm and sultry. Our Camp was visited by a great many strangers to day. Among the number Col. Brookes and family.  we had dress parade and the men looked exceedingly well. wrote to Hon. E. S.  17th Day Cool and pleasant, but very dusty marching. we were reviewing this evening at the Presidents Mansion by old Abe Lincoln himself. he looked very well and seemed as though he was well pleased with our Regiment. Dr Dunlap and myself were both mounted on Horseback and in full uniform. Our place was in the rear. we returned to Camp.  18th Day very warm. at 11 1/2- A.M. we recieved orders at Camp to pack up our fixings and tents etc. and be ready to march in 1/2 an hour, to Alexandria Virginia. all was excitement the ballance of our stay at Camp Montgomery. the news was recieved with three hearty cheers. it was good news indeed, for all of us began to think we would not be sent away. we left our old quarters about 3 P.M. marched into the City with all of our Regt. (except a few sick that we sent to the Infirmary,) and twenty eight four Horse waggons, containing our tents, knapsacks etc., then over the Long Bridge, then to Alexandria, then to Fort Ellsworth, a distance of 12 miles in all, in about 4 hours.  the men stood it well. it was expected that there would be a fight at this point to night. we did not pitch a tent, but when halted the men stacked their Arms, and was was soon asleep. (those that were not detailed for duty.) it was a dusty and fatiguing march.  19th Day pleasant and warm. this morning all hands were up early. the Grounds staked off for our Camp and by noon we were all again snugly fixed. men in good humor and glad they were so near the enemy. Our Staff took possession of a comfortable house on the premises and we are pleasantly situated. the men soon made way with fences and build sheds in double quick time. I took a walk to Fort Ellsworth and examined the work. it is a splendid
27  fortification and very secure. they have 10 howitzers, 32 and 48 pounders, planted, and commanding all the whole Country, besides 5 Dahlgren's Guns, also one or two pieces of Duncans battery. those that were through the Mexican Wars. they look as if they had done good service. I noticed on one piece that had the names of seven battles engraved on it. there is also a deep ditch all around the fort. they have full view of the Potomac below Alexandria. I rode up to the Marshall House where Col. Ellsworth the brave young man, was killed. I had no time to go inside, but will or at least expect to visit the place soon. Our Mail Carrier brought our Regt. to day over 2000 letters, the largest we ever recieved at one time. I notice from our Camp a Regt. from Massachusetts, one from Michigan, one from New York, (Ellsworth's Five Zouaves) and the Penna 5th, we are now within four miles of the enemys Pickett Guard. Our Pickett Guard extends three miles from our Camp. we are only 11 miles from Fairfax Court House, 26 from Manassas Junction and 17 from Vienna. Our boys to night are in excellent Spirits. all have been provided with 40 rounds of Cartridge. we expect an attack from Manassas Junction. I noticed the dull and dreary looking appearance of Alexandria as we marched through it yesterday. at only three places were we cheered by Citizens smiles and those were Ladies, they hate us here and show us no favors. wrote to Jos. Green.  20th Day very warm and sultry. this morning I visited Alexandria and went all through the Marshall House where Col. Ellsworth was killed. I seen the place where he stood and where the balls entered that killed him and Jackson. I took from the place some relics of wood.  The House is completely torn upside down. I went through all the principal Streets, the pavements and streets are in a miserable condition. the town is very dull, business nearly suspended. place contains about 15000 inhabitants. So far I have formed a poor opinion of the South. We sent 20 men from our Regt. as Scouts to night to or near Fairfax C. House. wrote to Priscilla.
28  21st Very warm and sultry. at night we had a terrible storm, which lasted several hours. To day two months of our enlistment expires. We are still expecting an attack every hour. wrote to Mrs. S. H. and E. B. H. The Ellsworth Zouazes captured this evening 8 horses and mules a big team wagon, one white man and one slave.  22nd Still very warm and dusty, but a pleasant air is stirring. this morning was the time sett by Genl. Beauregard for an attack on us at this place. it is now ten A. M. and no signs of the enemy. evening pleasant and comfortable.  23rd Sunday very warm, appearance of rain. To day I visited a slave pen in Alexandria. On the house I noticed the name of Price, Burch and Co. Dealers in Slaves. I went in the Yard and there found a paved floor, the walls were about 20 feet high, at one side was a covering to shelter them in time of a rain or storm. the quarters were anything but comfortable. we were visited to day by some Danville friends. wrote to the Chronicle.  24th Day very warm and dusty. Caught two beautiful green snakes. Dr. Magruder Surgeon Gereral visited us to day. wrote to Mary J.M.  25th Still very dusty. a good shower would by very acceptable. Camp is quiet to day. we are beginning to think that we will not be attacked at this point very soon. I visited the Michigan Regiment to day.  Dr. Brodie is their Surgeon and Dr. Smith Asst. Surgeon, both Gentlemen. Lieut. Sweet of the U.S. Dragoons paid me a visit to day. wrote to Nick.  26th Day cool and pleasant. we were highly favored with two heavy showers to day, it has purified the air and settled the dust. wrote to Priscilla and Annie C. L.  27th Day Cool and pleasant. We were visited by quite a number of strangers to day. in the afternoon we had inspection of Arms and equippments. in the evening all the Regiments in these quarters were reviewed in Alexandria by Col. Heintzelman, who has command here at this post. they presented a fine appearance.
29  28th Very warm and sultry. Camp was quiet all day, but in the evening the whole Camp was aroused by an intelligence from our Pickett Guard, who sent word to us that there were 8000 Rebels within 8 miles of our post. news were sent to head-quarters at Alex., when 3 of our Companies were immediately sent to assist the two Companies of our Regt. that are at Clouds Mill.  29th Day pleasant. Our Companies returned this morning, without discovering the Rebel troops. they ascertained however that the number was smaller than reported, and they thought they recd. notice of our approach and retreated from the place they had been seen. Our men are very anxious for to go out after them and try and capture the rascals. Our sick are doing very well. wrote to Dr D.W.B.  30th Sunday. Day pleasant with rain. This is a sorrowful day in our Camp. this morning at 3 A.M. our Picket Guard, two miles from our Camp, were attacked by a band of 20 Rebels. they were the Governors Mounted Guard. they attacked three of our Sentinels. they shot two of them, one lived but a short time, the other is now doing well. I was sent for and hastened to the spot immediately. I found Thos. Murray dead having two bullets put into him. I also found L. H. Rumer seriously and dangerously wounded, the ball entered his right scrotum passed through to the left side and entered the thigh. I probed the wound, found the ball and cut it out behind. I then had both brought to our quarters, the latter to my own, where I will do all I can for him, but consider his case hopeless. We also found one H. C. Hanes Sergeant of the Gov.'s M. Guards, dead, and two others wounded and feel confident that others are hurt from the blood we found at different places. we also found on Hanes body, a map of the Rebels routes across the Country, $15 in money, most of it Fairfax County scrip, and other articles. also on the ground we found two Sharp's Rifles, two Colts revolvers and a lot of ammunition.  we sent Hanes to Alexandria Head Quarters. I also took from Hanes pocket his pipe. I then cut out of his body the slug fired by one of our men that killed him. these I shall preserve as trophies of the war.
30  Our men are all very anxious to pursue the Rebels. it is with much difficulty that we can keep them in Camp. I never seen a more brave sett of men in all my life. when the news reached Camp, hundreds offered their services and coaxed to be left go out Scouting. the body of Thos. Murray was sent home this afternoon. wrote to Pris. and Geo.P.  July 1st 1861  1st Day cold, with a heavy storm in the evening. The neighbors where our Pickett Guards are stationed, told the men to day that one of the Rebels that was wounded yesterday named Sumers had since died. this was the man that was shot by L. H. Rumer. the Guards of the Connecticut Regt. captured four of the black Horse Guard to day and brought them into Camp. Rumer is resting very quiet now. wrote to Hon. E.S. and  W. Cam.  2nd Day Cold and stormy. This morning the 3rd one of the Rebels that were attacked died from his wounds. his name was Fairfax and a Son of the man whose name was given for this County, or rather this County was called after him. Our Camp is quiet to day. wrote to Bro. Ed.  L. H. Rumer is doing very well to day. there is considerable effusion in the scrotum and it is very much enlarged. he bears up under his affliction manfully. he is a brave and good soldier.  3rd Day pleasant and warm. nothing new in Camp to day. this evening we heard that Genl. Patterson of Pa. had made an attack upon 10,000 Rebels and had taken them all prisoners of war. I think the news are too good to credit entirely. wrote to Jennie C  4th Very warm and sultry all day. Congress assembled at Washington this day. the day was celebrated in this region in various ways by the different Regiments. we had rather a dry time in our Camp. at home it was calculated they would have a big day. in the evening I went to Alex. had a pleasant time. Yesterday a Minnesota Regt. came here 1200 strong.
31  5th Day warm. Nothing unusual in Camp. our wounded man Rumer is doing very well, some hopes of his recovery. Our Camp was visited to day by many of our friends from Lewisburg, Milton and Danville. we were all pleased to see them.  6th Morning Cool and pleasant. at 1 A.M. this morning our Camp went all suddenly aroused by the Sentinels firing their guns. they supposed there was an attack being make on our Camp. it proved to be a false alarm. at 9 A.M. our Regiment went to Alexndria to be reviewed. we took the Testicle from Rumer this evening, as thing were mortifying. 3rd Maine Regt. arrived here. wrote to Aunt Lucy and Ag. E. D.  7th Sunday, day very warm and sultry. we were again visited by a number of our home friends. 3 more Regiments came in to day, and encamped close by. all are 3 years Regt's.  8th Still warm and sultry. this morning we recieved good news from Fairfax Court House. Some 800 of our troops, from Maine, Ohio, and Connecticut, made an attack on F.C.H. and took the place and are now in possession of it. and put to flight some 3000 Rebels. we lost some 45 men, their loss was very heavy, the number is not known. To day I took a Scout through the Country, a distance of six miles. I also visited the Alexandria Seminary, an Episcopal Theological Institution. I examined the premises and buildings and found them beautiful, but very much out of order. The 1st Michigan, boys have done themselves a great injury here and at Mrs. Halls. House, by destroying the property- unnecessarily. it is really a shame. our men now guard this road and the residents here are very glad of it. wrote to Gust.  9th Day very warm. towards evening we had a severe storm and afterwards heavy rain, which was very acceptable. nothing new in Camp to day. every thing quiet. we heard this evening that Genl. Patterson's Column would be attacked by 25000 Rebels, and forces were being sent to Patterson all day from Washington. wrote to Jennie C. and Sallie E. C.
32  10th Day very pleasant after the rain. I went to Washington this morning and drew my pay up to June 1st. I recieved $163.06 for one month and 12 days services, from the hands of Maj. David Taggart.  11th Very warm. I visited the Senate Chamber to day and seen quite a number of the distinguished men of the nation. Senate was in session. I then went over to the House of Representatives and spent some time there. I was well pleased with my visit. I heard no regular sett speeches. I then returned to Camp, where I found the men all in good humor. they had all recd. their pay for One Month and 12 days services. quite a number of them got beastly drunk, so the Guard house was well filled, and some 30 on the Ring at one time. the Colonel had all the sutlers stands closed for the day.  12th Day very pleasant and comfortable. Considerable drinking going on in Camp. it was necessary to close the sulters stands again to day. the boys became little troublesome. quite a number more of new Regiments came in to day. we have now some 15000 troops within one mile of us.  13th Rained quite hard all morning. last night we had another alarm in Camp. This evening we recieved orders to pack up all our effects, except our overcoats and be ready to march at an hours notice. the men went to work immediately and in a short time all were ready to march. all went to bed expecting we would move from here before daylight.  14th Sunday. This morning we arose from our beds and found no further orders, but was told to send all our baggage to Alexandria to be stored away for safe keeping. we kept our Overcoats, Haversacks, Canteens, Arms and equippments. the ballance was sent to Alex. we were agreeably surprised by a visit from our friends C. F. Hess and  T. G. Evans, who spent the day and night with us in Camp. they brought good news from home. our boys sent home with them over $400. Our Company sent home over $1000 for safe keeping.
33  The three years Regiments are coming in very fast. we have around us now some 20,000 troops, to day we recieved our Ambulances, to carry the sick on a march.  15th Day cool and pleasant. our friends left for home this morning. we are still under marching orders and waiting patiently for a forward movement. all are ready and willing in our Regt. Mr. H. W. Snyder and Shindle took dinner with us and spent the day. this evening our Colonel gave orders to each Company to drain their salt beef and crackers and boil it off by morning so we would be able to march by 10 A.M. we all enjoyed the excitement throughout Camp, caused by the Cooks, while preparing our rations.  16th Day lovely and Cheering. this morning we were all busy getting ready to March, and everything was joyous as if going to a Pic Nic, when a report of a Musket was heard and shrieks and groans grated upon our ears. I was sent for to come to Co. F. where there was a man shot. I hastened to the tent and there found J. Wasson of Co. F. Capt. Bolton, who was shot by Thos. Kelly of the same Co. Accidentally, the ball passed between the 7th and 8th Ribs into the Left Lung. Wasson lived about 20 min. it occurred at 9 A.M. At 10 A.M. the Regiments being ready, our Brigade consisting of the Penna 4th Mass. 5th and 11th and Minnesota 1st, Ricketts Battery of 12 Rifled Cannons 10 pounders, all under the Command of Col. Franklin Marched for Sangster Station. we also had Col. Wilcoxs Brigade consisting of the Michigan 1st and 4th and Ellsworths Zouaves and with Arnolds Battery consisting of 4 Brass pieces, and Col. Howards Brigade consisting of one Vermont and 8 Maine Regts. Capt. Lows Co of Cavalry, and one 32 pound Rifled Cannon. All under the Command of Genl. Heintzleman, numbering over 10,000 men, and in Genl. McDowells Division. we marched on slowly and cautiously until dark. we then halted for the night on a mountain. Cooked some Coffee and went to sleep. we Captured a number of Secessionists and their Horses. fully Armed.
34  17th This morning we were awakened at 2 1/2 A.M. cooked our Breakfast, ie. made coffee and eat a cracker, and was again on our march at 4 A.M. Col. Franklin gave me charge of all the Ambulances in our Brigade. we left Fairfax Court House to our right and hurried on to Sangster Station, where we arrived ahead of our time, but three hours too late to intercept the enemy's flight. they passed this Station at 1 P.M. and burned all the Rail R. Bridges as they went along. we arrived at 4 P.M. the bridges were still burning furiously. they left everything behind them, which showed they were hurriedly retreating.  On our way here we Captured over 50 Rebels and Horses. Some Officers and privates. we also routed them from their masked Batteries and forts. One place we came upon them so suddenly that they fled and left everything behind, even their Muster Rolls, flags, a lot of fresh beef, flour in barrel, and even their soup that was being cooked by them. we are now 20 miles from Alexandria by R. Road. we traveled the waggon road, and I suppose that is twice as far as by R. R. we frequently found the Road blockaded by the Rebels. we had 250 pioneers and in a short time they would make new Roads for all to pass. the Country we passed through is a barren mountainous and unproductive region. very well timbored. the crops are very poor. Corn many places not two feet high. Oats short and wheat very scarce.  we were within 6 miles of Occaquaw. On our march to day, a musket was discharged and accidentally killed an Artillery man of the U.S.A.  18th Day very pleasant and warm. This morning our men brought in several Rebels and one Negro. One of the men was an Alabamian and was a member of Capt. W. L. Gordons Company and was enlisted for 12 months. he told us that a party of 33 men from his Company were the men that attacked our Picket Guard at Pikes Run 2 miles from our Camp. his name is Alex. G. Smith. on that
35  night he says they lost 8 of their men at this attack, this is 4 more than we knew of before. At noon we recd. orders to get ready to march at a moments notice. we waited patiently untill 5 P.M. before we started with our Brigade we marched 6 miles and then encamped for the night near Centreville. we moved to this point very cautiously, as Tyler's men had been fighting here to day against the Rebels. our men fought bravely, what the loss is on each side I am unable to say. Genl. Tyler's conduct was condemned here by the men. he had advanced farther than he was ordered to do. we marched in silence for two miles. we encamped on a hill and was surrounded by about 40,000 troops. our whole division is here now, and all under the Command of Genl. McDowell. The fires in the different Camps look beautiful, for miles around you can see them and it looks to my eye as if the earth was imitating the skies and trying to have stars too.  19th Morning Cool and pleasant. Our men are very much depressed in spirits this morning, on account of having no rations. they were promised to us sure, but as yet they are not to be had. many of our men has had nothing to eat for two days. I myself have eaten nothing but hard crackers, and drank coffee for sometime. our provision train is behind some where. I ascertained that the loss of our men yesterday was 60 killed, wounded and missing. all was under the Command of Genl. Tyler. he had to Retreat. he is severely reprimanded for disobeying orders. he was to remain at Centreville but went two miles beyond and was attacked and inhumanely treated by the Rebels, when they attacked their masked Batteries at Bulls Run 1 1/2 miles from Centreville. the Rebels fired Grape and bomb-shells. the fight lasted about 3 hours. Today I visited the wounded and sick of yesterdays work. they are all at Centreville in Churches and houses. the Citizens of the place have all left.
36  I also attended the funeral of a Wisconsin Volunteer. Genl. Tyler's, Brigade consisted of the Wisconsin 1st, Ohio 2nd , Mass. 9th and New York 69th. the talk to day is growing more severe on Tyler for his wreckless conduct and carelessness. Tyler's skirmishers had told him twice that they discovered masked batteries ahead. he ordered them in again. the Rebels allowed the Scouts to pass, and when the troops had fairly entered the pass at this place, the Rebels fired on them and mowed them down like grass.  I visited Centreville to day and found the Citizens had nearly all fled. those that remained claimed to be strong Union men. I also visited one of the Rebel Forts. they are generally very poorly constructed, and I am satisfied they never calculated to make a stand at any of these places, but had them to serve as decoys to us, and coax us on farther into their strongholds.  It was very laughable and amusing to see the men of the different Regiments killing cattle for the use of the men. Ellsworths Zouaves slaughtered a dozen or more at night. they are the greatest adventurers in the whole Service. they are always on the go, they are very useful in many ways. Good natured and obliging.  20th Morning very hot and sultry. Our Picketts brought in a number of Rebel prisoners this morning. among the number was a member of the Black Horse Cavalry, he says at the Battle on Thursday at and along by Centreville, our men killed 300 Rebels, besides wounding a great number. he also says they are suffering very much for the want of water and provisions. they are now living on Rice, and they are very sickly, having Small Pox, measles and Fevers. Our Picketts were firing at all hours last night. we have everything guarded for miles around us. the Rebels are deserting their ranks very fast and are anxious to join us and fight for us, and their officers are fearing it very much. we also hear from all the prisoners that they are suffering very much from
37  disease at Manassas Junction. I went within 1 1/2 miles of the Fort at Bulls Run. it looks like a very dreary place. it is reported that their breast works at this place is a 1/4 mile in length. This evening we recd. orders for the whole column to march at 6 P.M. before that hour came, the order was countermanded and three days rations was distributed to all the men whose time had not expired. The term of enlistment of our Regiment having expired to day, we were honorably discharged from Service by Genl. McDowell. The following is the order, No. 37, also ordered back to Camp Hale Vir.  July 20th 1861  "The General Commanding has learned with regret that term of Service of the 4th Pennsylvania Regiment of Volunteers is about to expire. The Services of this regiment have been so important, its good Conduct so general, its patience under privations so Constant, its State of efficiency so good, that the departure of the regiment at this time can only be considered an important loss to the Army."  Brigadier General McDowell  Camp at Centreville, Virginia.
38  21st Sunday. This morning at 4 A.M. our Regiment (being discharged yesterday morning from service.) started back to Camp Hale at Fort Ellsworth, where we arrived safely at 2 P.M. after having a march of 25 miles, through the heat and dust. Our men offered to stay a few days longer if there was to be a fight that soon, but Genl. McDowell refused their staying, unless they would remain two weeks. the men took a vote, and the Maj. carried for going home in preference to staying two weeks. I could not blame the men for what they did do, because they had been badly treated during their whole term of Service, not only by Government, but by many of their officers, and they said they were honorably dismissed from Service, and they had written that they would be home at the end of three months, and they had left their businesses all unsettled. so they would go, and go they did. after we had travelled several hours we heard Canonading behind. we were all considerably surprised to hear it, because when we left Centerville it was generally understood through Camp that there would be no attack made on Bull Run for several days yet, as all things was not ready. that they were waiting for a train that would bring combustible material to burn the woods, and Mortars to shell the batteries. Many of our men wanted to go back, and another vote was taken, but carried to go to Camp Hale, and if necessary then to go back they would. we had not been in Camp long untill all things were as busy as usual.  This evening we had an alarm at Camp. Our men were up and in arms ready for any emergency in a few minutes.  22nd Unpleasant. The news that we recieved last night from Centreville that a battle had taken place is confirmed this morning. the news is very contradictory and unsatisfactory. Some say we have driven the Rebels from their strong holds, others say that
39  we are badly defeated. the latter I believe, because our men are passing us here all the time for Washington and they all say they dont know where there regiments are. I dressed the wounds of a great many Soldiers of different regiments and they all tell sorrowful tales of the manner they were advanced by many of the officers. I am confident Genl. McDowell has hurried these movements. I seen him on Saturday evening in company with Senator MacDougal of California and I am confident they with many others were intoxicated. I took our sick men to Washington this evening, in order to have them ready for to accompany the regiment home in the Cars to morrow. Rained hard all day and night.  23rd Day pleasant and warm. Our regiment left Camp Hale this morning and came to Washington. Another alarm kept our men up all night. at Washington we halted a few hours at the Lichan House, then went to the Baltimore Depot. The news from Bull Run is more favorable for us than we heard yesterday. the panic stricken soldiers are straggling in from all directions. we did not get off from Washington until 8 P.M. our ride was an unpleasant and tedious one. the train made very poor headway. we arrived at Baltimore at 2 A.M. and remained there the ballance of the night.  24th This morning we left Baltimore at 1/4 before 8 A.M. for Harrisburg where we reached at night. again making poor time, the scenery and country from Baltimore here is beautiful. when we passed the line between Md. and Pa. three hearty cheers were given for our good old State. the treatment we had recieved from her hands was all forgotten, and allowances had been made for her, because at the time we left home there was no system established, and now she is doing as well if not better for her Sons, than her Sister States.
40  I readily noticed the difference in the appearance of our grain fields, the cleanliness of our farms, from those in the States we just came from.  25th Very warm. Harrisburg is crowded with soldiers. many are arriving for the three years Service, and the three months men are being discharged as fast as they can muster them out of service, and all say the majority of their men will return to the war. I find a great deal of dissatisfaction exists among the Volunteers and officers on account of the Pay Masters being behind in their duties. All want to be discharged paid off and get home. Many have been here a week and are not yet discharged, nor paid off.  26th Harrisburg is all in excitement, more troops are arriving every train, both ways. we all fear a riot here on account of the pay of the Volunteers. we are promised our discharge to morrow.  27th Day pleasant and warm. Our Regiment were Mustered out of service to day, but recieved no pay as yet, except our own Lewisburg Infantry. they were paid off in full by an arrangement of our own with the pay master. we all left Harrisburg for home at 1:40 P.M. where we arrived at 5 P.M. we were welcomely recd. at the Depot by the Citizens, both Ladies and Gentlemen, the Military, Engine Companies etc. after parading the streets we were halted in Market Square and had an address from Wm. Van Gozer Esqr. he was replied to by Capt. Chamberlin. we were greeted with cheers from the Citizens and kisses from the Ladies. We were then dismissed and went to our homes and recieved the Congratulations of our families.  I never witnessed a more solemn scene than on this occasion. it was tears of joy that moistened the cheeks of a many a sun burnt soldier. we all lived to get back home. of our Company,
41  28th Sunday. Very warm. Town I find is crowded with strangers attending the exercises of the College and Seminary. I was visited to day by a number of my old friends. they kept me busy talking all the time about the war, Country etc.  29th Still very warm and sultry. My office was crowded to day all the time with callers. I was nearly talked out, besides having my hands squeezed to pieces, and arm nearly broken by so much shaking hands. Four young Ladies graduated at the Seminary.  30th Day very warm. I have seen a number of old acquaintances since my return, and feel grateful to know that our Course is approved of by our friends, since they have been informed of the whole transactions. in the evening I heard an oration delivered at the College Chapel by the Rev. Geo. A. Peltz, Subjects "Devotees of Truth". it was a splendid production and was well recieved. Several Theologians Graduated today.  31st Still very warm. I am still kept busy talking to my friends, town is crowded with strangers.
42  August 1861  1st Very warm. Commencement day. Seven young men graduated in the regular course. their Orations were very good.  2nd Still warm. To day we held our Annal Pic Nic at Renglers Grove. we had a delightful time all passed off well and satisfactory. there were over 100 young persons present. in the evening ten couple of us drove to Milton for supper and then home.  3rd Warm and sultry. rain is very much needed. town lively. Our Lewisburg Infantry paraded the streets this evening.  4th Sunday. very warm. took dinner at Moores. had a pleasant time.  5th Very warm and very dusty. Sister Emilie and Son, started for the West. A great many School Teachers are coming in to attend the Teachers State Convention to be held here.  6th Day warm and sultry. very little was news now. the three years men are going to Washington. All the Reserve Volunteers are being brought into Service. Teachers Convention began to day.  7th Dry and warm. town lively. Some 200 School Teachers attending the Convention.  8th Very warm. Convention well attended. they closed their exercises to day.  9th Day pleasant and cool. we have had several fine showers. went visiting with some Lady friends above Milton.  10th Day cool and pleasant. Town lively.  11th Sunday. Cool and pleasant.    12th Rained all day and night. River rising.  13th Day cold. had fire in my office. Col. Hartranft Telegraphed for me to come and meet the Staff Officers of our regiment at -
43  Norristown, left home in the night train and staid all night at Harrisburg.  14th Day very cool, left Harrisburg at 8 A.M. Arrived at Norristown at noon. My friends were very glad to see me. they gave me a welcome reception. in the afternoon I recieved the ballance of my pay from Maj. D. Taggart $246.75, making in all for the three months and ten days Service $409.81 Spent the evening calling on my friends.  15th Day pleasant. rode out this morning with my old friend and surgeon Dr J. B. Dunlap. we visited quite a number of the sick of our regiment, among the rest our wounded man L. Rumor. I found him doing well. in the afternoon I went to Philadelphia and stopped at the Continental Hotel. Spent the evening calling on my friends.  16th Day quite cool and pleasant. bought $25 worth of books, also some clothing and notions. paid my Drug bill in full. in the evening went to the Theatre. John H. Derr a member of our Company was buried to day with Military Honors at Lewisburg.  17th Rain this morning. left the City for Harrisburg. arrived there safely. spent the afternoon and evening there, started for home at 9 1/2 P.M. reached there at 1 1/2 A.M.  18th Sunday. Day pleasant and warm. Camp meeting in the Country, but did not go.  19th Pleasant and warm. Town dull, very little business doing.  20th Day warm. C of our old party went fishing, up Penns Creek. we sett out lines with links etc.  21st. Still warm and pleasant. found the fish very scarce, we caught but a few ells.  22nd Rain this morning, fish more plenty. we caught in 41 ells, left for home, party pretty well tired out.
44  23rd Day warm and pleasant. Town very dull.  24th Day cool with rain. Mrs. McDowell over the River died.  25th Sunday. warm and sultry. buried Mrs. McDowell.  26th Pleasant and cool. I was called to see David Slifer, who was seriously injured by horses running off. he had two ribs broken, and foot badly lacerated.  27th Morning pleasant. James Chamberlin started with 32 recruits for the War.  28th Warm and pleasant. was called to Milton to see one of our returned Volunteers who is lying sick with Camp Fever, and held a Consultation with Dr. Dougal.  29th Very warm and pleasant. town dull.  30th Pleasant. went to Milton to see my patient, and while there was called to see another one our Volunteers who has Camp Fever.  31st Very warm. visited my patients again to day they are very sick men indeed.
45  September 1861  1st Sunday. Cool and pleasant. patients at Milton doing well.  2nd Pleasant. to day we recd. good news from Genl. Butler and Com. Stringham. they were Canonnading along the Coast of North Carolina for two days, they conquered the Rebels, took 30 Cannon's, 1000 prisoners, a Number of Officers, Ammunition, and two small vessels. Killed a number of their men, and captured a ship load of Cotton. also took possession of Forts Hatteras and Clark. and we did not loose a man.  3rd Pleasant and cool.  4th. Warm with rain. News of the 2nd Confirmed.  5th Town very dull and very warm.  6th Pleasant, mornings and evenings cool. Kremer went to Phila.  7th Pleasant. Lewisburg Greys was organized as a regular Volunteer Company by Brigade Inspector Simington.  8th Sunday. very warm. B. Frank Angstadt was married to Miss Mensch in the Lutheran Church. also Jasper Fisher to Miss at the same place the same evening.  9th Pleasant. Capt. Geo. H. Hassenplug of Mifflinburg passed through town with his Company for the War. the Company is made up of Citizens from that place and Lewisburg. this is the 3rd Company that has left here for the War, all having a majority of Lewisburg men. this evening Capt. T. Chamberlin sent home one of his men a corpse from Washington City. his name was Wilkes from Chappel Hollow.  10th Pleasant and warm. Buried Mr Wilkes.  11th Day pleasant. had a fine shower this morning. old Mrs. Shaffer died aged 96 years.  12th Day pleasant. went to the Senatorial Conferee Meeting at Lock Haven, as a friend for Johnson Walls. we were defeated by one vote. buried Mrs. Shaffer.
46  13th Day pleasant and warm.  14th Very warm. Town quite lively.  15th Sunday. very hot. rain in the evening. in the morning a despatch came that the Rebels had attacked our troops at Washington City, and they were fighting, in the evening it was Contradicted.  16th Morning pleasant. Court Commenced. full attendance.  17th Rained very hard. Our County Committee mett and ratified our County nominations. I was Sec'y. of the Meeting.  18th Day pleasant and cool. Town very lively.  19th Warm and comfortable. My patients at Milton are well enough now to be up and about the house.  20th Pleasant and warm.  21st Still pleasant. Town unusually lively.  22nd Sunday. Cool and unpleasant, very windy and regular fall weather.  23rd Very Cold mornings and evenings.  24th Day more pleasant.  25th Day Comfortable. James Strawbridge died, aged 86 years.  26th Pleasant and lovely. The day was sett apart by President Lincoln as a day for fasting and prayer, owing to the distracted State of our Country, it was well observed in this place, all business was Suspended and Churches all thrown open. the day was well spent.  27th Unpleasant with rain all day. buried Mr. Strawbridge funeral quite large.  28th Day more pleasant. River commenced rising at noon very fast.  29th Sunday. River very high, and within three feet as high as it was ever known.  30th River falling very fast. the high water has done a vast amount of damage in many places.
47  October 1861  1st Day pleasant and cool. went to Harrisburg. Visited Camp Curtin. found many of my old friends who were in our Regt. in the three Months Service, who have re-enlisted for the War. Many were anxious I should go with them as Surgeon again.  2nd Pleasant. Army Medical Board met to day. I entered my name as a Candidate and passed through the examination. there were 155 Doctors examined for the posts of Surgeons and Assistant Surgeons. and only 10 posts are now vacant. we had a hard through of it, nevertheless a pleasant duty. The Gov. A. G. Curtin delivered a short address to us and very Complimentary.  3rd Pleasant and very warm. visited Camp Curtin and the Asylum. returned home in the Afternoon. Our Agricultural Fair commenced to day.  4th Warm and comfortable. Fair well attended, quite a respectable display of almost everything. plenty of visitors.  5th pleasant and very warm. Fair closed to day. the reciepts were very encouraging to the Managers.  6th Sunday. Comfortable, but cool.  7th Unpleasant with rain all day. River rising fast.  8th Day Cool. Election day. Polls well attended. Considerable excitement as regards the different Candidates.  9th Day Cool. Election returns all favorable for our own County Candidates. the Judge of this Judicial district in doubt  10th Unpleasant with rain. returns comes in very slowly. Judge still in doubt, but we claim him. I recieved my notice of my successful examination before the late Medical Board and have been recommended to the Governor by the Board as worthy and entitled to the appointment of Asst. Surgeon. it is now for me to accept or decline the honor Conferred. this I claim as a great compliment to me, as there are only 10 vacancies at present to fill and I am of the successful Candidates, that applied last week, out of the 155 that applied.
48  11th Unpleasant with rain. Judge still in doubt, as far as heard from our Candidate Saml. S. Wood has defeated Isaac Slenker. we are now waiting the vote of our Volunteers in the Army. they may change the vote sufficient to elect the Democratic Candidate. asked to be sent to Col. Welsh's 45th Regt. Pa. Vol.  12th Day Pleasant and warm.  13th Sunday. day lovely. quite a number of our Citizens went to the dedication of Dreisbach's Church, 6 miles from town.  14th Pleasant. this evening I recieved orders from Surgeon General Smith to report myself for duty immediately to Col. Welsh 45th Regt. Pa. Vol.  15th Very pleasant and warm. Capt. J. M. Linn left town with his Company for Harrisburg. I commenced packing up my effects, and making arrangements for leaving home again for the wars.  16th Pleasant. Sold some of my medicines to different ones, and packed up the ballance, along with my library and moved all home, in the evening I left home for Camp Curtin at Harrisburg. I had quite a serious time in bidding my friends good bye. Forrest gave me $40, J. B. L. sent me $10 had $16.  17 Very warm. reported myself for duty at Camp this morning. went right to work with the sick of our Regiment.  18 Still warm and pleasant. There is now in this camp 7000 soldiers.  19 Pleasant and warm. recruits still coming in. bought my tent furniture.  20 Sunday. heard Rev. Davis preach this morning to the men in Camp. in the evening I went to Church with some Lady friends.  21 Pleasant. this morning our Regiment recieved marching orders. previous to leaving Camp, we were all brought up in line and the Governor presented us with our Stand of Colors, in a very neat and appropriate speech. he was replied to by our Colonel. the men marched to the Cars, and was soon all aboard. at 1 1/2 P.M. the trained moved off and we started for Washington City. I was sent to Phila. on business. I staid there over night and returned to Harrisburg. Mustered into the Service of the U.S. for 3 years or during the war.
49  22 Day unpleasant with rain. I returned to Harrisburg this afternoon, recieved my Commission and transportation and ordered on after my Regt.  23 Morning cool. left Harrisburg for Baltimore at 2 A.M. reached Baltimore at 9 1/2 A.M. Spent a part of the day there and then left for Washington, at 3:45 P.M. and arrived there at 7 P.M. Stopped at the Clay House and found it poorly kept.  24 Morning and day pleasant. went to the war department and found the locality of our Regt. while there I had the pleasure of shaking hands with President Lincoln. on my way up there, I had also the pleasure of a look at and a salute from the venerable Genl. W. Scott. he was in full uniform, and looked quite smart. I afterwards attended the funeral of Genl. E. Baker of the California Regt. he was killed at Balls Bluff. it was a very large and solemn one. I noticed Genl. Wool in the procession. thousands were in attendance. afterwards went to Camp Welsh, where I found our men and all glad to see me.  25 Day cold, a heavy frost this morning. we prescribed for upwards of 75 men to day. we have nothing very serious in Camp. our location is a beautiful one and is located along the Bladensburg turnpike and one mile from the Capitol. on the same ground that the late Genl. Baker was encamped with his Regiment or Brigade.  26 Day pleasant. I went to the city this morning and bought some more furniture for my tent, Stove etc. in the afternoon we struck our tents and was ready for a march, when the order was countermanded for this day.  27 Sunday. this morning we removed our Regiment to Bladensburg, and called our new location Camp Casey. we pitched our tents along the line between Md. and D.C. on the same ground where the duels used to be fought. and on the banks of the eastern branch of the Potomac. the Stream where the British Army came up previous to the fight at Bladensburg. we are now only a 1/2 mile from this dilapidated town and 4 from Washington City. I was shown the place where Cilly was killed. we are close by Fort Lincoln.
50  28th Morning cool. Our Regiment went to Washington and were reviewed by Genl. McClellan.  29th Day pleasant our sick list is increasing very fast. men are very careless as to what they eat etc. Col. Goslin's Zouave Regt. encamped beside us to day.  30th Pleasant. Sick list on the increase. Col. Goslin's Regt. left again to day.  31st Very warm. Brig. Genl. O.O. Howard Inspected our Regt. to day, and was very well pleased with the appearance and good discipline of our Regt. I visited Bladensburg to day and found it a small and insignificant place. Our County and district Elections have all proved favorable and successful to the Republican cause.  November 1861  1st Day Pleasant and warm. in the forenoon I went to Washington and sent our Hospital Stores to Camp. evening it rained and stormed furiously.  2nd Day very unpleasant. Still storming and raining and continued all day. this was the most unpleasant and uncomfortable 24 hours I ever experienced in a storm. the tents (many of them) blew down and was filled with water and mud. recieved orders to march at Midnight for Southern Md.  3rd Sunday. this morning we started for parts unknown. the whole Brigade went under the Command of Brig. Genl. Howard. we forded the Eastern Branch of the Potomac at Bladensburg. we stopped at night in a woods close by Centreville Md. an insignificant place of 1/2 doz. houses. after marching 16 miles. it was hard marching for the men. So much mud and sand.  4th Day pleasant. this morning we started on our march at daylight. passed through upper Marlborough, a rank Secession hole, and County Seat of Prince George's County. and halted at Hills Landing for dinner. on the Patuxent River, took my dinner aboard a schooner.  After crossing the River we passed through Anne Arundle County, and stopped beyond Smithville 2 miles, in Grahams Woods.
51  where we encamped for the night, with "terra firma" for our beds and the Heavens for a covering. this day we marched 22 miles. Many of the men gave out, as the roads are very sandy and hilly. the Country is very barren and many farms. the soil is exhausted, the chief production is tobacco and negros. Persimmons are very plenty, Grain fields are scarce.  5th Day cool and pleasant. after starting this morning I learned that we were in Calvert County, this region of country looks better, and parts of it has the appearance of Penna. land. but not at all like Penna. farming. Comfortable Houses and barns are very scarce. We arrived at Prince Frederick, the County Seat of Calvert Co. about 3 P.M. where we halted for the night, a distance of 13 miles, from our last encampment. 50 of our Regt. and a Squadron of Harlan's Cavalry went on to St. Lennans, 13 miles farther. I find our business on this expidition is to sustain the Union men and guard the Election districts which (Election) takes place to morrow. I noticed but a few smiling faces on our arrival here. after a little enquiry I found out a few good union people here. So 6 of us stopped with a good Union and law abiding man, the Rev. Mr. Hawley of the Methodist Church. here I also met a Rev. Wm. Laney and the Venerable Rev. Wilson all of the same persuasion. we were treated very kindly by these men, and well taken care of.  6th Morning unpleasant with rain. first thing our boys done this morning was to raise the Stars and Stripes upon a pole on the Court House, where a few days ago a Secesh flag floated. State and district Election came off to day. all passed off pleasantly until about 11 A.M. when an Ex-member of Congress Col. A. R. Sollers became a little noisy and threatened terrible things to the Union men. he exhibited a bowie knife, and was about insulting a Union man, when our Col. had him arrested and placed under guard. this created considerable excitement. it was soon quelled however, and things moved along smoothly again for a few hours. but as King Whiskey is always about in this Country
52  it was evident more trouble was on hand, and as these men showed it. they would be arrested, these Secessionists at heart. (although they denied it.) made a great many promises etc. to keep the peace, but it was no use, they were kept under arrest untill the election was over, when all were left go. but 5 of the worst, those we took care of in quarters untill morning. one was suspected of attempting to poison our men, as he was caught putting something of a white nature in the Camp kettles while the men were cooking. the Polls closed at 6 P.M. there was 200 votes polled. many of the voters came as far as 22 miles, and all go on horseback. our coming here has done much for the Union Cause. I learn we are only 20 miles from Port Tobacco. I also heard one of our Prisoners say he was Col. in the Rebel Army.  we all doubt it.  7th Morning pleasant. we left here and started back for our Camp, having accomplished our Mission. we took our 5 prisoners with us and encamped for the night at Grahams Woods.  8th Pleasant and cool with a heavy frost. Genl. Howard after examining our prisoners left 4 off on their taking the Oath of Allegiance, the 5th one Col. Sollers he left off on Parole, on account of ill health, with the promise to appear at Washington as soon as able. Stopped again at Centreville.  9th Morning cold and damp. we arrived safely at our Camp at 1 P.M. found many of our Men very sick that we had left behind and two dying. a gun was accidentally discharged and shot a private through the Arm, not seriously injured however. it rained hard all afternoon and evening. Our Regiment has recd. the praise wherever we have been of being the best disciplined Regt. that has passed over this same route. Col. Welsh deserves much praise for his good control of his men.  I had almost forgotten to say that our Brigade was scattered around through this Southern Md. at the different Election Precincts.
53  10th Sunday, day cool. a colored man, a cook in Co. D. died in our Regt. to day of Pneumonia. Since our return from the March I find nearly 100 of our men sick. it was too much for the first attempt. the Michigan 1st buried two of their men to day, and the N. Hampshire 5th buried one. it was a solemn and imparing sight. this is a very unhealthy locality for a Camp, being in a Malarious district. we have now on hand, Typhoid Fever, Pneumonia, Measles, Small Pox, Dysentery, Diarrhea and Catarrh Patients.  11th Day more pleasant and quite warm. we are kept very busy now with the sick of our Regt. we have now on hand 140 sick and many are very ill.  12th Still warm and pleasant. to day we had quiet a good many lady visitors, who brought us luxurius and dainties for our sick.  13th Day Comfortable. Ashbury Weston died of Camp Fever.  14th Day Cool with rain. Joseph G. Stone Co. A. died with Typhoid Fever. our location is certainly an unhealthy one. we have lately found out that we are on an old Camp ground, which is certainly injurious to our men.  15th Day Cool, and very muddy. our sick are now more comfortable and doing very well. we labor under many disadvantages in caring for them without the proper covering etc. we are promised Hospital Tents soon. the Sanitray Committee have sent us to day more dainties for our sick. they were very acceptable.  16th Day Cold and Stormy. tents nearly all blew down again. we are very much exposed to the strong winds here. Sick still improving.  17th Sunday. very cold and stormy all day. Dr Potter and myself very busy with the sick. we are now feeling more encouraged, as the list is on the decrease and many are Convaliscent, the Col. has promised to move us to a more healthy locality. Thomas Dickson died of Consumption Co. K.  18th Day Still Cold and windy. we sent 10 of our men to Genl. Hospital, as the Regt. moves to day to a more healthy Camp, two miles distant, nearer Washington City.
54  19th Day more pleasant and warm. this Afternoon an order came to our new Camp ordering us to strike our tents and be ready to march to the Cars with 3 days rations, to go to Baltimore and there take the Steamboat for Fortress Monroe. when the boys heard this news they took off their hats and gave three hearty cheers for the good news. all were ready long before the appointed time. we left in the cars at midnight. in consequence of this change we sent 21 more men to the Genl. Hospital, who we considered unfit to stand the journey. they will follow when able to do active duty.  Mary E. Walls was Married to Jos. Bucher this evening at Lewisburg.  20th Day very pleasant and warm. we reached Baltimore at 11 A.M. where our men were breakfasted by the Relief Association. we sent  our men, stores and baggage aboard the Steamboat Pochahontas, Capt. Charles, at 5 P.M.  sett our faces southward, on the bosom of the Noble Chesapeake, our band playing one National airs after another. I retired early, because I had a billious attack.  21st Morning beautiful. I am feeling better. I went on deck of our boat and kept a sharp look out for sights, but as there was little to be seen away from Porpoisis, and millions of Canvassback ducks. I soon went below again. at 11 A.M. we were hailed by the "Dawn" a gun boat belonging to the blockading Squadron. She shot across our bow which was a warning to us to stop, and say who and what we were. it was out from the Mouth of the Rappahannock. She came along side, and asked for Newspapers and gave us her Mail. we gave all the papers we had. She bid us go on and we parted with our friend. at 2 P.M. we came in sight of Fortress Monroe, and at 4 P.M. we landed safely at the Wharf below. we soon  unloaded all our effects and marched to our Camp ground, 1 mile from the Fort and along side of Mill Creek, and two from Hampton- now in ruins. it was late at night before we had all our tents pitched. we soon went to bed.
55  22nd Day lovely. this morning I arose at daylight and to my surprise I seen the Robin and Blue jay sporting around on the bushes, and heard them sing their cheerful dittys. it reminded me of home on a May Morning in our own beautiful Buffalo Valley. was very busy all day putting up our tents and opening our Hospital Stores.  23rd Morning Cool. had a light rain last night, but at 10 A.M. all was warm and cheerful again. was visited to day by a great many old friends and College Classmates from the Army and Navy. there are here now over 15000 Soldiers, and more coming daily. we are 6 miles from Sewells Point, where there is 12000 Rebels, 20 miles from Yorktown where Genl's Magruder and Bragg are with 25000 more Rebels. we are 80 miles from Richmond by land. New Port News is ten miles distant, where Genl. Mansfield has Command and in our possession. Craney Island is 14 miles distant and in the hands of the Rebels. they are to be seen with a glass, and it looks as if they were well fortified.  24th Sunday, morning lovely. went to the town and then visited Fort Monroe. there is room here for 300 Guns. the place is lovely, and is well built. in the Parade Ground I noticed a great many live Oaks. they are a beautiful ever green. the Fort is one mile in Circumference. the ditch or  is 100 feet wide and 6 feet deep and outside of this is a heavy water battery. I here noticed the Union and Floyd Guns. the Union is Mounted and ready for action, and weighs 52005 lbs. the Floyd Gun is lying close by on the Ground and weighs 49099 lbs. it costs Government $25 every time they make a full charge with this Gun. they are Massive pieces of Metal. the Bore is large enough to allow a man to Crawl in.  25th Day more cool. I was busy all day making out descriptive list of discharged soldiers, and forwarding them to Washington. I came across more of my College Classmates, now in the Navy.
56  26th Day pleasant and warm. nothing occurred to day of any great interest, more than Genl. Wool reviewed our Regiment, he complimented us very highly for our good disciplined and appearance  of the men.  27th Day more cool. our Servant went out along the beach to day and gathered a fine mess of Oysters and Clams. wrote a number of letters home.  28th day lovely and warm. this is the day appointed by the Governor of our State as a General Thanksgiving. we here at this place, went through our regular routine of drill etc. we had an extra dinner, plenty of Oysters, beef steak, Sweet Potatoes etc. Our men are enjoying much better health, than at any time since we are a Regt.  29th Day pleasant. very little doing to day. Camp quiet and men are more cheerful and happy. William Cameron Jr. Esqr. died at Lewisburg of Congestion of the Brain.  30th Day pleasant and warm, and very beautiful. birds singing sweetly all around our Camp. the boats that are now here to take us farther South are waiting their orders. we expect to leave in a few days, for Port Royal. wrote several letters home, to different friends.
57  December. 1861.  1st Sunday, pleasant and warm. Our Chaplin preached an excellent Sermon to day to the Regiment. Sick doing very well.  2nd Day Stormy. visited the Fort. this morning we heard very heavy firing at daylight, it continued nearly 5 hours. I afterwards  heard that there was an attack made on a Rebel Vessel by some of our Tug Boats. how it terminated I have not heard. in the evening it commenced hailing then snow and rain. I notice that Changes are very sudden in this climate.  3rd This morning when I awoke I was surprised to find the ground covered with snow and ice. it is now very cold and unpleasant, and storming quite hard. I sympathized with our Sentinels last night, they had an unpleasant night of it. Continued cold all day and very disagreeable. Considerable Pickett firing at 10 at night.  4 Morning again pleasant and moderating very fast. Our Camp was very agreeably and unsuspectedly surprised this morning by the appearance of Maj. J. B. Oakley, Paymaster of the U.S. Army, who paid off all our men up to the 1st Nov. 1861- I recd. but 10 days pay from the 20th Oct. up to 1st Nov. 1861- amounting to $44.75 I was ordered to duty on the 12th Oct. So I loose I suppose 8 days pay. and have  recieved no mileage at all. I suppose however our State will pay me the 8 days.  5 Day very pleasant and warm. this morning we recd. orders to pack up all our effects, and be ready to strike our tents early to morrow morning, and take passage aboard Steamers now lying waiting for us at the Fort, for Port Royal S.C. this was a gain welcome news to us.  the boys have been sending large amounts of money home to day to their friends etc.  6th We arose at 4 A.M. Struck our tents, and marched to the landing below the Fort. three of our Companies under the Command of our Lieut. Col. went on board the Steamer Illinois. I had charge of the Med. Department. This is a splendid Steamer and has been running to California from N. York since 1851  She is 2800
58  tons birthen, her Captain is Wm. Rathborne. the ballance of our Regt. was under Col. Welshs charge and they went on board the Steamboat Cosmopolitan. Col. Powers 76th Regt. Pa.Vol. had been put on the Illinois the day before. at 11 A.M. we hoisted our Anchor and the massive wheels were put in motion. we said good bye to the bal. of our regt. and we were soon on our voyage towards "Dixie".  as we passed the Steamers Minnesota and Roanoke, that are lying anchored here, we were cheered heartily by their crews. the Roanoke complimented us by having their Band play the National Airs, we gave them three times three hearty cheers, (such as loyal sons can give) and then they Manned the rigging of their vessel, which was a splendid sight to see the Sailors climbing up theses ropes like squirrels going up a tree. we were afterwards saluted by the firing of cannon from Fortress Monroe. this was the way we left old Point Comfort, the ballance of our regiment left at 4 P.M. we soon passed Cape Henry, and left the quiet waters of the Chesapeake and entered the more boisterous one of the Mighty Atlantic. night soon came on, and as I fell rather singular about the head, I concluded the best place for me was in bed. So I retired early as did the most of us, in order that we might escape if possible becoming sea sick. at 10P.M. I heard considerable noise on deck. I inquired into this and heard we were halted by the Monticello one of the blockading Squadron. She found out what we was and our destination and then bid us good night, and left us to the mercy of the wind and the wave, at 3 A.M. we passed Cape Hatteras. this is always a rough place. I slept soundly until 4 A.M.  7th  I arose early this morning and went on deck and remained there untill breakfast was ready. in the meantime I again witnessed the most magnificent sight my eyes ever beheld. it was Sunrise at Sea. the whole waters appeared to be on fire. I also discovered that "Navy land" was to be Sun. I was very much surprised to learn that but few of our men became Sea Sick all stood it so far nobly. after eating a hearty breakfast I again went on deck and with the Aid of the Spy Glass I noticed many vessels under full sail, bound for different Ports. it just now struck 6 bells. (11 A.M.) day lovely, sea calm, and we are making good headway, and off the Coast of
59  North Carolina, the Captain just ordered his subordinate to try the water, this was done by dipping up a bucket full and thrusting a thermometer into it, to see if we had yet struck the Gulf Stream, he says we are now in the Gulf Stream. Our boys are all well and happy as larks, all are now enjoying the Sweet Strains of the Violins and banjos, that are on board, and all are being as well executed as I ever heard them. Oh! it is delightful to take a trip on the briny Ocean. Afternoon and evening passed away pleasantly to all. retired early.  8th Sunday. Morning lovely and waves rolling high, at 4A.M. we were all aroused from our slumbers by the Cry of Fire, Fire. You can imagine with what a horror these words came to our ears. in an instant the dear ones at home flashed through my brain, a watery grave, being burnt up alive etc, was the thoughts of a moment. I jumped out of bed immediately and upon enquiry I learned that it was an unnecessary alarm, I returned again to my berth and took a quiet nap, untill the Gong Sounded, when I arose went on deck and had the satisfaction of seeing a number of large sized Sharks, that were Swimming after our Vessel. at 10A.M. the Captain told us we were opposite Charleston S.C. Soon after we noticed three large vessels going the same direction, with Stars and Stripes floating in the breeze. at 12M. we heard the Sound of Cannon, as we are still out of sight of land we did not know from "whence it came etc". about this time, there was a Scuffle on board between the Captains Mate, and a deck hand. the latter struck the former, when the mate knocked the latter down, with a Mace, which cut his Scalp open and he bled profusely, they then handcuffed him to an iron on deck, to await further punishment at some future day. at 15 Min. of 1P.M. we came in sight of land along the Coast of S.C. which was good news to many on board, especially those that had been troubled with Sea Sickness. For my part I cannot say that I am tired, I really enjoy being on the Ocean when pleasant. at 4-P.M. we came in sight of Hilton Head. the Pilot Flag was hoisted. (blue Ground with Stars on it.) and we were soon
60  Supplied with a Tug boat that was to guide us into the Harbor, but unfortunately we were ran aground a 6 P.M. Our Pilot did not understand his business, the sea was rough and we had an uncomfortable time of it untill 11 P.M. when the tide rose again and floated us off, and we made for deeper water, and then Anchored for the night. the Captain had thrown up Rocketts as a Signal for assistance but none came untill morning, when we were supplied with a good Pilot, who steered our vessel into the Harbor safely. thus we passed the most uncomfortable 5 hours that I ever experienced. Such a snapping and cracking of ship timbers, and a continual bumping and rolling of the vessel was anything but pleasant to land sailors, even those belonging to the boat were very much alarmed and gave us but little consolation. I just laid down on a sofa untill it was all over. I then went to bed. with it all our men behaved very well and put on their best looks while others were differently engaged, some Crying, others praying, some singing and others Cursing. with it all there was a number of amusing sights. and none more so, than this, a number of the men had been playing cards all afternoon for Sulters Tickets, (which is passable for goods and equivalent to money with their Sulters) so when this storm arose and it was fully decided upon by many of them that we would all be shipwrecked. it was laughable to see these chaps who had won these thickets, hunting up the ones they had won them from and making them take the tickets back, crying at the same time. the Cards were all thrown overboard or otherwise destroyed. thus ended my first trip aboard a large Steamer on the Mighty deep, a greater variety is seldom if ever experienced on so short a trip by any one. I am pleased with my trip and it has certainly gave me a good idea of Ocean travelling.  9th Morning bright and pleasant. at an early hour our vessel was under full headway and at 8 A.M. our Anchor again dropped and we were safely quartered within speaking distance of our men aboard the Cosmopolitan. we gave each other three cheers.
61  All are feeling as merry as if nothing had happened of a serious nature. I learned on our trip the reason why we were put on this Vessel. the 76th Regt. Pa. Vol. have not yet recieved their Arms, and our three Companies were put on here to guard them in case of any intrusion from the Rebel forces. I am sorry to say that our Services were not more highly appreciated by them. we not only guarded them but acted as guards aboard the boat, and with it all it proved a thankless favor. we will certainly remember them as showing us but little Courtesy. they cared but little for our Comfort. (a few of then were a little more Considerate) I notice some 60 vessels of all classes now lying in this Harbor. I notice is is very warm here and sultry. In the evening Genl. Sherman ordered our regiment to be divided. 5 Companies under Col. Welsh go to Otter Island. the Med. department to be under Dr. Potter. it is about 40 miles from here by water and along the Atlantic Coast. the other 5 Companies go to Fort Seward, (once Fr. Beauregard.) at Bay Point on Eddings Island, opposite to Hilton Head, and about 3 miles across the Port Royal Harbor. we were all very much disappointed in being separated. Lieut. Col. Beaver has Command of there 5 Companies, and I have the charge of the Med. department, and am acting Surgeon of the Post. I enjoyed a ride to day around the vessels  in the Harbor.  10th Morning pleasant and very warm. the Steamboat Delaware loaded on our Stores and men from the Illinois and Cosmopolitan. while they were doing this I went ashore to Hilton Head, and visited Fort Wells, (once Ft. Walker.) I went all through the Fort, and noticed the place where Dr. Buist was found by our men after the taking of this Fort. he was covered up with sand and killed by the bursting of a shell. he was engaged in dressing the wounds of a soldier when he was killed. I afterwards visited the Express Office of Adams and Co. also the Post Office etc. we went ashore in a novel way, the tide being low,
A Sermon on Bachelors and other things.  Ladies and Gentlemen.  The last time we assembled on dis creek, it fell to my lot to make a few brief remarks, on matters and things in general, which was - received with marked attention, amidst great applause and laughter, so much so, that I was afraid it would be necessary to hold a coroners conquest on de mortal remains of some ob de breddern dat was present on dat ever memorable occasion. Since dat time I hab often thought how fortunate we was, to make our external escape from de rapids of dat most beautiful stream dat we generally call "Penns Creek" after dat good old man who settled dis Colony dat we have de honor to reside in. I had concluded never to speak any more on sich tick'lar Casions, but de committee of de night watch was to see me a few weeks ago, and declared most positively, that I must prepare a speech for dis occasion, and consequently I thought I would, and as my memory is somewhat embarrassed by my late love serape, and the removal of my darling Katarine Mavourneenfishy to parts unknown, I took it for granted that you would bear with me, in  this most trying time of my wounded and heart stricken affliction. I am getting over it, very slowly. often, yes, very often does the tears trickle down my cheeks, about as large as Shanghai berries, it was an awful stroke for one not accustomed to disappointments, but such is life, as fast as you build your castles, there will always be plenty of gals to pull them down. I will now proceed with my discourse in a mild manner.
My Heavens: The text which I have chosen, from which to sermonize you to day, is said, by learned men, to have composed the first verse of a love song, sung by our great paternal ancestor Adam, a short time previous to his fall, as he roved in loveliness through the ambrosial bowers of Paradise. Of the truth of the assertion, I cannot vouch - My own memory running back but a short time previous to my birth.  But, to the text - to some of you it may not only appear (as I am disposed to think it really is) indivisible and consolidated - to most of you, the precursor of doubled and twisted thunder, hauky beyond all comprehension. Yes, you hard-hearted, cross-grained, ill-begotten, turkey-trodden unnatural woman hating everlasting old pests you! why dont you marry, and be somebody. I'm going to give you double dis tilled thunder, and rub it in with a corn cob saturated with spirits of turpentine and extra distilled elixer of vitriol stewed down by slow degrees of forty-five times stronger than newly issued chain lightning! Ye hardened sinners! I might as well attempt to coax's a mice's tail from a half fed tom cat, as to instill a moral lesson under your shirts by mild persuasion, or the emollient influences of my oleagenious eloquence. - There you be your faces fast losing the glow and freshness of manhoods vigorous days: the time-scarred monuments of your own misery. Poor, wretched, forlorn travellers to the land of deep despair, without a decent shirt to wear, and where woman's sweet snarling voice is never heard, and babies dwell not! You remind me of Hitesmans old horse what wouldn't go to water till he died for want of it. You dont know the sweets of married
62  we were carried ashore on the back of a negro. when we returned we were hauled out in a Cart to the boat. the Sand is very deep. the birds are singing sweety and it is uncomfortably warm. we go to Bay Point to relieve the 79th Regt. N.Y. Vols. we landed at this place at 1 P.M. we were all taken ashore with lighters, as our Steamboat could not get close to shore for the many shoals. there are no wharves here, at any of these points, but are now being built. we find things here in a bad condition, very filthy indeed.  11th Day very warm and sultry. men are bathing here in the Ocean. it is very comfortable, and linen clothing would be very acceptable here. Our men are busy to day cleaning up their quarters etc. I have had placed in my charge two sick Secessionists, one with Pneumonia, his name is John Lewis, the other had his arm shot off at the engagement here. it was then Amputated. his name is John Cruise, both are from Whippee Swamp, Prince William Parish, South Carolina. they belonged to Co. D. of the 9th Regt. S.C. Vol's. I have also in charge a Private of the 79th Regt. N.Y. Vol's. (Highlander.) with Confluent Small Pox. I gathered some fine shells to day, also some Secesh trophies.  we are located very pleasantly here at the terminus of Broad and Port Royal Rivers, where they empty into the Atlantic Ocean and form this Port Royal Harbor. Fort Seward has 17 heavy Guns, one bursted during the engagement here and Killed several Rebels, the one half is still lying on top of the Fort, and the ballance has never been found. it was a new Rifled Gun and made in Virginia. Their Magazines are all well filled with Ammunition. they Commenced this Fort last March, before Lincoln asked for troops. it was ready for the Guns in July.  there was 1000 soldiers guarding this Fort all the time, and were Commanded by Capt. Elliott, and all the troops here and at Hilton Head were under Genl. Drayton. We have also another small Fort in our charge about 1 1/2 miles farther up the Coast, with 5 guns, and have one Company there.
life because you have not tried 'em, and you have not tried 'em because you did not happen to know 'em beforehand. Dis question once more refreshes my olfactory organs, in de kase between my self individually and my intended better half Katarine Mavourneenfishy. we was so near joining hands in holy Padlock and connubial joy and felicity, dat I was jist a gwine to embrace her, when we differed a small trifle in our understanding, just one simple word between us, and on dat one word we could not agree.I axed her would she have me for better or for worser, and she positively came out as bold as a sheep and said, and said - NO. My feelings can be imagined better than expressed. My Hearers. 2 times secondly: I might quote various passages of hearsay to prove to you the necessity of getting a wife, but I forbear, lest some of you should take to quoting the dictionary when the urgency of your cases requires that your time should be spent in holding the galls. Now I hinted in the outset that my text was indivisable; but I find, upon reflection that they are two heads to it, and that these two heads constitute two persons, or rather, one person and one thing namely:  1st A married man, or person,  2nd A Bachelor, or thing.  A married man is a person to all intents and purposes, while a bachelor is a thing beyond all doubt. Seeing therefore, that my text is capable of divisions, I have divided it; and will describe a Bachelor, or thing, descant upon the position relative, moral, and social, which he occupies in society, next describe a married man, or person, run a comparison between a married man, and a thing; and finally extort generally.
1st Of a Bachelor.  A Bachelor, my friends, is a mixtry; a compound of selfishness and nonsense, and he constitutes the narrative extervation, or hungus fungus, of what is called the tail end of a God's intelligent creation. Without a single sparse of the fervent fire of true, manly love, to warm hyperborean heart; he stands in society the miserable subject of his own undoing, scorned at by prattling school girls and frowned upon by snuff taking old maids. O how I pity his lone condition! There was a time, perhaps, when boyhood's halcyon sun shine had tinged with its mellow light the young bud of hope, and he looked with ripening expectations to joys beyond, almost fancying in visions that ever and anon, in sportive glee, life's panoramic mirror pictured to his eyes, that he saw a cheering hearth stone, all his own, around which a sweet mother whose children called him father and loved him. But now, how changed! The stern realities of the present mock him to bitter reflections; and cursing that procrastinating indifference which has robbed him of every hope itself; he sits by a rayless fire the companion of gloom and the friend of non, a discontented being.  My Hearers, 3 times, thirdly. I had rather be a broken down stage horse, on as bad a road as the turnpike that runs through our pleasant and beautiful valley, with a drunken driver, and a coach full of passengers, rather than be one of you joyless, hope forsaken, women hated, buttonless, miserable mean devils, Have you a soul? forty five thousand of them would rattle in a mustard seed and dance polka's, and bowchukas, upon the point of a cambric needle,
That man among you who can't stump up courage enough to pass the interrogatory when occasion offers, is too mean to be the subject of a woman's mercy, and too insignificant for her justice to punish. He deserves to be tried by a jury of twelve disappointed old maids, and sentenced to be banished (clothed in a petticoat) from the land of free institutions, to live forever unpitied beneath the servile sufferings of scandalous subjections.  How obdurate must be the heart of him who, gazing into the stormy heaven of woman's eyes, or listening to the lute like sweetness of her voice, throbs not with the soft sympathy of love!  My Hearers, there's a Heaven in a gentle girls breast, fit as a temple for the indwelling of love and innocence, and could you but find a lodgment for your weary spirit within you'd scarcely exchange it for that where angels dwell.  I have stood by the side of her I loved, and as she leaned in tender confidence upon my arm, and turned upon me the spell like witchery of her blue eyes, I have felt a glow of pride in being loved by that dear one, which I would not exchange for thrones or empires!  Once more does the memory of my Katerine come back to me, as if she came to told me, she still loved me, most dearly and fondly, oh! how I long to twine my arms around her wasp-like waist, like de honey suckle climbs de crab apple tree. Julius Ceaser what times we had before day moved to sour krout stettle, day was times, indeed they was, but why lament, for times dat is past and gone, tink of de good times dat is to come.
Would you feel this glorious calm within, which, I doubt not, Heaven has given to man to feel as a foretaste of that intense sweetness which forms the "golden everlasting chain" of love which binds the spirits of the Blest? Open your heart, and the gentle Angel of Love will fold his gossamere wings and enter there.  Away with the contemptible excuse that no one would have you. You are not too old.  Try, try again.  To quote the language of one of our greatest Poets of the present age,  "There was never a goose so gray,  "But some day - soon or late,  "An honest gander came that way,  "And took her for his mate."  Although, my friends, the author from whom I have quoted these sensible lines speaks as referring to a goos, yet the same is applicable to a gander, and, if applicable to a gander, then, by a figure of speech, likewise to you.  Cheered then by this consoling truth, will you delay the happy hour? Remember that the ploughshare of time is gradually furrowing your manly faces over, and each departing year leaves upon you the imprint of its footsteps. Anxious old maids lean loving even now towards some of you, like a sick kitten to a hot brick, and some young ones I doubt not, would be darnation glad to get you. Up then, ye unsophisticated, superanuated; and supernumerated toadies you. Enter suit at once before your ugly countenances shall put in a plea in abatement of the actions.
File your declaration in Cupid's Court, fee Love as your attorney, engage one woman as a jury to try your case, and if she finds a verdict against you, appeal to another, but remember, my friends, that this is the only trial by jury in which issue is not arrived at until after the termination of the cause - that is by legitimate method.  My Hearers, 4 times fourthly, - and lastly, - In conclusion let me earnestly advise you with tears in my eyes by all manner of means to get you a rib, and when you are getting, get you a good one - one who knows a broomstick from a pan handle, and is acquainted with the duties of practical housekeeping. These whimsical, hysterical, coquettish little misses, who are half whalebone, and half grass skirts and bed cords, are not worth a sensible man's notice.  But a woman my friends, who properly understands the nature of the duties which are incumbent upon her, and feels a spirit to discharge  those duties is a blessing of incalculable value, and the sooner you obtain such an one, the nearer you are to heaven. With her life's current will run smoothly and sweetly on, unruffled and unrippled, and when finally its gentle tide shall ebb, it will flow so calmly into the great ocean of eternity, that scarce a bubble will mark its confluence.
A few more words and I have done. I am thankful to you my Hearers for your kind attention and I hope what I have said may do some good to those of dis audience who are on the brink of Bachelordom. get a duck of a wife by all means, and den you will live in joy and felicity all of your life. (dat is providing she does not scratch your eyes out.)  I would love to dwell longer on dis subject, but as it is soon yet, and I'm somewhat embarassed still in my cough, and fearing the dampness of the place might repair my institution, I find it necessary to disclose.  Therefore again, let me thank you for your attention. I have done.  More Anon  Delivered on the Banks of Penns Creek, above Hastleton at our Anual Pic-Nic by a pine knot light 1854. by Theo S. Christ
63  12th Day very cool, so much so that we were compelled to wear our Overcoats in order to be comfortable. Game is very plenty on this and the adjoining Island. Deer, Coons, Pheasants, and Opossum's, in the Creeks are Ducks, and plenty of Oysters. Flowers are in full bloom close by, and Oranges are in abundance. Cotton is still plenty and is now being gathered by a Government Agent, and it is then shipped North. An Account of quality, and from whose plantation it is from is strictly kept.  Flour is selling here to those not in the Army at $25 a bbl.  Newspapers when they first arrive sell's, as high as $1 a piece.  Tobacco sells at $2.00 a pound. Matches 25 cts. a box and all things else in proportion. I arranged my Hospital to day.  13th Still cool, but moderating. Recd our mail to day, also a box from home, containing money, Clothing, Butter and etc. our men are nearly done policing these Grounds.  14th Day warm and pleasant again. last night William Etian of Co. A. died of Apoplexia, and was found dead in the morning in bed. none of his comrades knew it untill he was gone. in the evening I visited the Cosmopolitan. she just returned from Otter Island and says the other half of our reg't. are nicely fixed.  15th Sunday, very warm and pleasant. Visited Hilton Head and dined with Col. Fraser of the 47th N.Y. Vol's. I also met Col. Serrills of the Engineer Corps there. they were here at the engagement and the description they gave me was very interesting. it must have been a most magnificent affair. I am sorry that we were not here to have taken part in this great victory. there was 38 vessels in the fleet. the Wabash threw over 800 Shot and Shell in less than two hours. I enjoyed my visit very much.  16th Pleasant and very warm. nothing of any great importance occurred to day. men still policing the Grounds.
64  17th Very warm. this morning 20 of us went on an expidition to St. Helena Island to see what was to be found there. 10 of us went up Station Creek in a boat. the other 10 we sent by land. we seen Islands of Oysters, and any amt. of ducks, and birds. at 1 P.M. we arrived at the house of Dr Wm. Jenkins. he has left with all his family, and left all his furniture, books etc behind. he has a very fine home here, and a fine flower garden. I plucked a handsome boquet here of choice flowers, and very fragrant. Our men that came on foot seen a great many Cattle, Hogs, Sheep, Turkeys etc, so we left 12 behind to gather what they could for us in the way of fresh meats etc. the rest of us returned home at night. we had a delightful trip and all was well pleased with our exploration. Capt. Scheifflein came down from Otter Island.  18th Still very warm. our foraging party returned to us to day with 3 [bieves], 2 sheep, a lot of chickens and eggs. we are and have been living very well here. Sweet Potatoes are very plenty and we buy them from 25 cts to 50 cts. a bus. from the Negro's. Pigs we buy from $1 to $2 a piece. Chickens 12 1/2 cts. a piece. Capt. S. and his party returned to day. Commenced building a wharf for our own Convenience. Heard heavy firing all day at a distance. it proved to be at Tybee Island.  19th Day pleasant and warm. Genl. Sherman ordered a Signal Station to be built here.  Wm. A. Schreyer was married to Miss Mary Young of Hanover.  20th Still pleasant. To day we were inspected by Lieut. Col. Bell of Genl. Sherman's Staff. he inspected men, quarters, Hospital, Fort, books etc. and was very well pleased with the discipline of our men, and their cleanliness in every way. We then gave him a Raccoon dinner. it was my first trial of the Animal, and we were all delighted with it, and enjoyed it very much.
65  21st Day cold and stormy. to day we recd news by the Vanderbilt that England demands Mason and Slidell or War. also that Charleston S.C. was burned by the Negro's. neither communication was credited here. I sent a box home by Jos. Baker to Sister Priscilla, containing Shells, Oranges etc.  22nd Sunday, very stormy all day. the tide rose very high. stayed in the house nearly all day, and read 93 Chapters in Psalms. Afterwards took a ride along the beach on my Pony.  23rd Still very stormy. the breakers ran high all day and kept the Vessels rocking all the time. I gathered quite a number of fine Shells.  24th Day more pleasant and moderating. Commenced building Ovens for baking bread for our whole Regiment. also commenced  the erection of a Condenser, for purifying Salt water, to supply our troops and vessels, in order for us to use it for Cooking and drinking. Our mess call met together and we spent quite a pleasant Christmas Eve. we had quite a jovial time, cracking jokes and manufacturing Molasses Candy.  25th Christmas day and very warm. all duty except guard duty, was suspended for the day, and all left do about as they pleased. some few went out hunting and brought in one Raccoon, others went boat riding etc, etc. Some few of us went out horseback riding along the Coast, and enjoyed it very much. we returned to our quarters and then partook of a most splendid dinner. we had roasted Turkey, Soup, Pies, Puddings, Oranges sliced and sugared, and wine. we drank toasts all around, and thus ended my first dinner (Christmas) in South Carolina.   26th Day very warm. nothing new of importance. the Ocean Queen came in and brought us a very small mail. Our men done their first firing to day on the heavy guns with blank Cartridge. they done very well and it shook every building near the Fort.
66  27th Still very warm and sultry. health of our men excellent. had a pleasant ride down the beach. no news to day.  28th Day very stormy. I went over to Hilton Head with an old boat and it taught me a lesson not to try the same experiment again, as we came very near swamping several times. the breakers ran high. still we went over and back safely. I visited the Medical Director Dr Geo. E. Cooper and handed in my first morning report. the Dr is a fine and accomodating man. he was well pleased to learn our men were so healthy. In the evening it commenced getting cold again.  29th Sunday, day more pleasant. Adjutant Gregg and a party of our men came down from Otter Island. the health of their men is not so good as ours, they having 7 in their Hospital and I have but one. Our men are getting along finely.  30th Day pleasant but windy. the tide was higher this morning than it has ever been before since we are here.  After dinner I went with Capt. J. I. Curtin and 10 of his men on a foraging expidition to St. Helena Island. we stayed all night at the house of Dr. Wm. Jenkins.  31st Morning beautiful. after breakfast we started the men after Cattle. this done we hitched up an old horse in a n old buggy, and we started towards the upper end of the Island. we passed a number of plantations belonging to the Chaplin's, and Fripp's, and others, and finally came to a halt at Dr Daniel T. Popes. After staying here awhile we returned to Jenkins. on the road we passed a very ancient looking Episcopal Church, with a fine Cemetery attached. we also passed a brick church which is patronized by the poor white people and slaves. we then traveled on the broad road as it is called, and a lovely place it is to ride upon, very wide and shaded with live Oaks all the way. we had a dark on behind for footman, as all Gentlemen travel this way in the South. our party returned to Camp with plenty of beef. To night we bid good bye to 1861.
67  January. 1862.  1st Day pleasant and lovely. To day our forces at Beaufort Ferry commenced an attack at 7 A.M. they were Commanded by Genl's. Viele, and Stephens, all under the Superintendence of Genl. T. W. Sherman. we heard the Canonnading all day. the Rebels were at the Ferry and our forces were at Beaufort. we wanted to and did cross and made the Rebels retreat. So says our Lieut. at the Signal Station. there was also two Gun boats of the new pattern.  2nd Day very warm. we heard more canonnading all day and this evening our expectations were gratified by the welcome news of our successful operations yesterday. Genl. Viele's Brigade having returned to Hilton Head and accomplished the object of their mission. the firing to day was from our Gun Boats, that were shelling the woods were the Rebels were concealed, having been chased there from the Ferry by our land forces. we captured one of their Guns, lost one man killed and 6 wounded from the Michigan 8th Regt. Vol's. also Maj. of the 8th Maine Regt. was wounded. he having volunteered his services to the 47th N. York regt. they have no Maj. at present. the Rebels lost over 140 killed and wounded not known, also took two of them prisoner, and one of those is mortally wounded. he says the same shell that struck him killed 12 men by his side. he also acknowledges their loss was very great. the object of this visit there was to destroy the work that we knew they were erecting at the Ferry, 7 miles above Beaufort, on the Main land. Our men say they could hear the Locomotives whistle and cars rattle on the Rail Road all night, bringing in re-inforcements from Charleston and Savannah. after taking and destroying this Fort and all its buildings, our men marched back to their quarters at Beaufort. I was also informed that these new Gun boats done their work up in good order. wrote to Dan. and Chronicle
68  3rd Day very warm. a squad of our men at Beaufort visited the battle ground and found another one of our men killed. the enemy had all left and retreated to Gardners Station on the Rail Road. their number is supposed to have been 12000 strong. all property is destroyed at the Ferry. our man was buried to day.  4th Day pleasant and warm. I took an Ocean bath. it was grand to go into the briny water and have the breakers roll over you. we are hourly expecting a Steamer with the Mails. I have recd. no news for more than two weeks, and am almost inclined to become provoked about it. nothing new to day. all quiet.  5th Sunday. this morning it rained quite hard and was the first rainy day that we have had since our arrival in South Carolina. at 11 A.M. we recieved marching orders. much to our disappointment, as we had hoped when we moved again it would be to join the balance of our Regt. but no such good news. we were put on board the Cosmopolitan and remained there untill next morning, when we started for Skull Creek, and reached our destination in about an hours travel. and was landed at Seabrook landing about 3 1/2 miles from Hilton Head and across from Pinckney Island. this is a place for Vessels to take in coal and is a better landing than at Hilton Head. our half of the Regt. was then all cut up by sending a company to different Islands and Points to be guarded by them. we have one at Bradocks Point and so on. we are now the advance troops of Genl. Shermans Army. and the other half of our Regt. at Otter and Fenwick Island's, are the advance towards Charleston and only 30 miles from there. truly they have scattered the 45th to all sections.  6th Morning pleasant. we started from Bay Point at daylight and landed here an hour afterwards at Seabrook landing. we relieve the 55th Regt. P.V. who go to join Genl. Viele's Brigade. Our quarters here are comfortable. Our mess quarters in Seabrooks house.
69  7th Day pleasant and warm. to day some of our men were out scouting and while out noticed the Rebel picketts on the opposite Island and talked with them, the distance being too great to understand what was said. it was in the neighborhood of Bluffton, we heard firing in that direction all day, but think they were practising with their Guns. we are on the advance towards Savannah. The Atlantic brought us a mail with news from home. it was hailed with delight and was very acceptable.  8th Day Cool. in the afternoon it rained a little. nothing new here to day. our men went out foraging and brought in some fresh meat. this morning six of us started for Braddocks Point where we have one Company stationed. we hitched on to the Ben Deford a Steamer, but she stuck so often along the road in the mud, that we gave it up and returned to quarters, and put it off untill another day. wrote to Sallie C.  9th Morning lovely and warm. after breakfast the Lt. Col. and myself started on horseback for Braddocks Point, on the way we visited Mrs. H. B. Stony's plantation also Mr Grahams. both pleasant homes, and show that the owners lived in good style. we travelled over several other plantations, and found the majority of them in excellent order, land good, and plenty of negroes. we reached Braddocks Point at noon. found our men all in good quarters and living very well and contented. they had but one sick man so after attending to his wants we went on top of the house, said to have been built by John C. Calhoun. here we were within 5 miles of Fort Pulaski and the State of Georgia, by the aid of my glass I could recognize the Guns, and flag staff on the fort. we also seen Tybee Island and our shipping there, also, Daufauskie, Bull, Song Islands and the Savannah River. this is a splendid place and our men enjoy themselves very well. after dinner we started from here for our quarters. we varied our course somewhat and came passed an Episcopalian and Baptist Church. at these places we noticed some very fine vaults for burying the dead, one in particular a Mr. Baynards. we rode 25 miles to day.
70  10th Day very warm. we moved our head quarters to day from Seabrook Landing to Graham's plantation, it being more central for the convenience of our different companies in order to make their reports etc. we have an excellent new house here and every comfort for our men. we have a government agent here gathering the Cotton, which is still very plenty on this island.  11th Still very warm, as much so as at home in May. this morning I visited a Colored woman said to be dying by the negro's. I found her sick with measles, and she was enciente and doing very well. I am annoyed very much by the negro's medicine, I generally give them when they need it, and go to see them if necessary. This is a very large and very good plantation, and everything looks as if the owner had considerable taste and enterprise, an uncommon thing I should judge in this Country, by what I have noticed at the different places I have been in the South.  12th Sunday, very warm and pleasant. to day I again visited Braddocks Point. the plantation belongs to Mr. Baynard. while here I recieved the joyful intelligence that some of our troops and a body of Engineers had succeeded in removing the hulks, sunk by the Rebels, in Newtons Cut, and that the channel was now clear to Savannah, so I expect in a few days, Genl. Sherman will send a fleet there. by this route they will pass by Fort Pulaski, and go through Skull Creek.  I had a delightful ride, was accompanied by Adjt. G. D. Smith. wrote to [Jennie] C. I also ate ripe tomatoes just pulled from the vines at dinner.  13th Day lovely and warm. to day we recieved a mail from Fortress Monroe, which brought news for all. this was the largest mail that has yet arrived at this Port. it was welcomely recieved. nothing new to day. last night we had an alarm here, it was brought about by our own men. they were out hunting cattle, when they found them and fired. which caused our sentinels to arouse us. we soon ascertained the Cause, and then went to bed. wrote to Sister Em.
71  14th Day cloudy with rain. I had a splendid ride in a sail boat to Seabrook Landing. it was truly delightful. Adjutant Gregg came down from Otter Island and stayed with us all night, the Colonel has been very ill but is getting better. wrote to Jno. B. Linn. and Kate Shifer.  15th Morning unpleasant with rain. Lieut. Col. and myself went to Braddocks Point, had a pleasant ride and an excellent dinner. returned in the evening and learned that Dr Potter and Col. Welsh was aboard the Steamboat Delaware at Hilton Head. So we took our supper and immediately after went down to see them. we went aboard the Boat and stayed all night with them. after riding 23 miles to day.  16th Still unpleasant with rain. this morning we bid our friends good bye, as the Dr. retd. to Otter Island, and the Col. who is very sick goes home for 30 days. we returned to our quarters. Maj. Kilbourne who was home recruiting retd. to day with our sick men from Fortress Monroe and a lot of recruits. 79 in all, and many are still unwell, and should have been left behind a while longer. there is another mail in to day. wrote to Gust. L. and Miss [L. S. Lefevre].  17th More rain to day. went to Seabrook, where Capt. A. Curtin made me a present of a splendid medicine chest and some medical works, which he took from Spring Island, S.C. a portion of the 1st Massachusetts Cavalry were landed at Seabrook to day.  18th Day more pleasant, but cool. the health of my part of the Regt. is very good. nothing new to day. all is quiet at head quarters. our men at Braddocks Point took two Rebel prisoners to day.  19th Day very warm and pleasant. went to Braddocks Point. Maj. Kilbourne went along. we had a pleasant ride. nothing new to day. wrote to Laura L.  20th Day lovely and quite warm. recd. a large Christmas box from home, containing canned fruit, and dried fruit, Turkey, Chicken, dried apples, Cakes, and Tobacco, etc. from Sister Priscilla, Miss M. E. Billmyer, and Miss Hattie Marr. it was quite a treat indeed, and a very welcome one. all arrived safely and in good order. There is considerable stir at Head Quarters, an advance will soon take place.
72  21st Day unpleasant with rain. visited Hilton Head to day, and there noticed quite a number of troops embarking on board a number of Steamboats for some new locality. where I did not learn.  22nd Still cool with rain. visited some of my sick to day. all are doing very well. I seen to day two Companies of the Engineer Corps getting ready for an onward movement. also some Artillary. they were embarking from Seabrook Landing. wrote to Miss M.E.B. and H.M.  23rd Raining hard all day and night, and very stormy. remained at home all day. fixed up my Hospital Stores, and cleaned up generally, fixed many little things and done some writing. wrote to Priscilla.  24th Morning still unpleasant with rain. went to Braddocks Point. visited my sick, all doing well. returned in the evening, then went to Seabrook, to see the sick there. stayed all night. rode 20 miles today.  25th Morning lovely, sun shining brightly and very warm. returned home, visiting my sick along the way. nothing new to day.  26th Sunday. Day very warm. Visited Spanish Wells' Plantation to day. they were loading troops again to day at Seabrook, part of Genl. Viele's Brigade was shipped. Genl. Wright's Brigade left Hilton Head in Steamboats. there was several Gun Boats accompanied this expidition, and I suppose they were destined for the neighborhood of Savannah.  27th Very warm. heard Canonading all day, in the direction of Savannah. it was very heavy at times. Genl. Sherman left for the Scene of Action last night. My sick doing well. wrote to Nick. V.  28th Day very warm. heavy Canonading all day towards Savannah. it sounded splendidly, and would shake the windows in the house at our Head Quarters. they fired about every 4 seconds for hours at a time. Some very heavy and loud reports was heard here. it continued untill dark. there was intervals of a hour at a time, when it would begin again. in the night the Genl. McClellan returned to Hilton Head for more troops, because they had landed our Infantry, Artillery and Engineers North of Savannah and were now throwing up entrenchments, to protect
73  themselves. our Gun boats again done good execution. Seven Rebel Gun boats, undertook to run from Savannah to Fort Pulaski. they encountered our boats. So a battle took place among them. 4 Rebels boats retreated to Savannah, the other three made for the Fort. 2 succeeded in getting past, and 1 was completely destroyed by our boats. this is the report I have heard. this afternoon I was hastily summoned to Seabrook, as one of our men had been accidentally shot in the leg, by his comrade. the ball entered at the insertion of the Gastrocnemii Muscle and was lodged in the Popliteal Space. After probing the wound I discovered the ball and then cut down upon it and removed it with but little trouble. We recieved a large mail to day. Steamer Genl. Scott broke in two.  29th Day very warm and pleasant. Considerable firing heard all day in the direction of Savannah. it is certain that our forces are between Savannah and Fort Pulaski, which will cut off the supplies to the Fort. they are scarce of wood and water there, but have plenty of provisions.  30th Very warm. to day the air is flying full of embers, and it is very smoky. it comes from the direction of (or rather below) Savannah. we suppose the woods have been fired on the main land. Considerable firing heard again to day. as yet have recieved no news from that direction. to night the whole heavens are illuminated from a large fire a great distance off, in the direction where the embers and smoke came from to day.  There is a change some way taken place among the Rebels. I judge so because the usual Signal in the direction of Bluffton is not seen to night. this Signal we have seen every evening since we are here untill to night. it was a very bright light and would remain up for hours. they would then draw it to the ground. we supposed here that it was a small balloon. I laughed very heartily to night at a negro man Stephen, giving us a full description of the Rebels retreating from Hilton Head, when our forces landed there. it was very amusing indeed.
74  31st Day windy and pleasant. A number of us went to Braddocks Point early this morning, expecting to see an engagement between our Gun boats and those of the Rebels. alas, we were disappointed, the latter was not to be seen. we learned the Cause of last nights fire, it was the woods on the lower part of this Island. no news to day, and no firing. traded horses, mine gave out.  February 1862  1st Day warm with rain. visited Hilton Head. met quite a number of old friends there and spent a few hours very pleasantly. engaged a McClellan Saddle from Lieut Shunk. Ord. Officer. no news  of any importance to day, and no firing heard.  2nd Sunday. Day windy and cool. had quite a number of visitors to day, and among the number two Ladies, Officers wives. they were almost a curiosity, as it is very seldom you see a white woman in this country. I conversed with one yesterday from New York. Col. Fraziers wife, and found her very pleasant. it was really a treat to me. I imagined myself at home and among my Lady friends. wrote to Annie C. L. and Mrs. Pu.  3rd Day very pleasant and warm. heard considerable firing again to day, in the direction of Savannah. was visited to day by Col. Frazier and wife, also a number of Army and Navy Officers.  4th Morning cloudy. Afternoon pleasant and warm. a party of our men went out foraging this morning to Spring Island. have not yet returned.  recieved a mail to day and heard from home. the Baltic has also arrived, bringing another mail. firing again heard to day, occasionally, same direction.  5th Day warm and pleasant. foraging party returned bringing plenty of meat, etc. mad a requisition for medicines. nothing new to day. everything quiet. wrote to Bro Dan. Ag. E. D. and Meal M.D.
75  6th Very warm all day. no news of any importance. The Steamer Atlantic arrived with a large mail. wrote to Wm. Frick.  7th Day very warm and Sultry. This Afternoon I was dispatched for in great haste to go to Seabrook. after arriving there I found William Orner of Co. D with a Compound fracture of the Humerus, caused by a Rebel Picketts ball, while he and others were out reconnoitering at Buckingham Ferry. I probed the wound but could not find the ball. So I bandaged the Arm, and applied the splints, according to Penna. Hospital Practice. In the evening the Major and 40 men went out reconnoitering to Bulls Island.  8th Rained hard nearly all day, accompanied with thunder and lightning. Maj. and party returned this morning. they discovered nothing in their travels of any importance. nothing new transpired to day. wounded man doing well as could be expected.  9th Sunday. day unpleasant with rain. all quiet to day along our lines. sick doing well. wrote to Bro. Dan.  10th Day Still unpleasant, with more rain. Capt. A. Curtin and others left for home in the Steamer Baltic to day. they go as recruiting officers for the U.S. Government. Sent another box of Shells and Coraline home by Liuet. Redfield. recd. my Hospital Supplies to day.  11th Day very pleasant and warm. firing heard in the direction of Savannah. went to Braddocks Point.  12th Very warm, night lovely. wounded man doing as well as could be expected. regiment very healthy. firing heard again to day.  13th Day lovely, very warm. Visited Spanish Wells, and discharged there and other places six men from service, on account of impaired health. firing heard again to day in same direction. wrote to the Choir.  14th St. Valentines day. very warm and comfortable in the evening we had a shower of rain. this morning Fort Jackson near Savannah was to be attacked by our Gun boats, we heard heavy firing in that direction all forenoon. I have not heard the result. I examined Wm. Orner's Arm, and find everything doing remarkable well, to my entire satisfaction.
76  15th Day very unpleasant with rain. heard firing again to day.  16th Sunday. Still raining very hard. Dr. Potter came down from Otter Island. went with him to Hilton Head, then to Seabrook, where we staid all night with Capt. Curtin.  17th More rain and very unpleasant. Dr P. left for O. Island. to day we recieved the gratifying news that our Battery at Venice Point along the Savannah River was attacked on Saturday by four Rebel Gun boats, and one Steamer tried to pass from Fort Pulaski to Savannah for supplies to the Fort, and our Battery there drove them all back to Ft. Pulaski, and disabled the Steamer and one Gunboat. So much that it was necessary for them to be towed to the Fort. we were not injured in the least and lost no men. the battery was in charge of one Company of the 3rd Rhode Island Regt. in Genl. Viele's Brigade. wrote to Jos. Musser.  18th Still raining and cool. went to the 1st Mass. Cavalry's Camp and spent the day with Capt. M. Moore. had my horse shod etc.  19th Day still cool, rain at night. Today we heard good news from the Burnside Expidition. it is said they took 3000 Rebel prisoners in N. Carolina.  20th Day beautiful and very warm. went to Braddocks Point. on the road home I seen two Ladies on horseback and one Gentleman. it was really a treat to see Ladies that possessed white faces in this foresaken Country.  21st Day warm and pleasant, rain in the evening. nothing of any importance occurred to day. all quiet along the line of Pickets.  22nd Day very warm. we recieved a large mail, which brought us good news from the West, the taking of Fort Henry, and confirming the report from Burnsides expidition. Our Chaplin also arrived safely. The Army and Navy fired their Guns to day in honor of Washington.   23rd Sunday. pleasant but very warm and sultry. our Chaplin preached for us in the evening. it was really a treat to us all to hear the word of God preached to us once more. it was the first Sermon I have heard for over 4 months, and to day it appeared like a Sabbath day at home. his text was, "the day nor the hour knoweth etc."
77  24th Still very warm and pleasant. Genl. Sherman and Staff left head quarters to day. it is rumored that they have gone to Fernandino, in Florida. wrote to Priscilla.  25th Very windy all day. nothing new of any importance, staid in the house all day. wrote to John B. Linn and J. Wes. C.  26th Day cool with a heavy thunder shower. nothing new to day along our lines. the Steamer Harriet Lane touched at this Harbor and brought us more good news from the West. Our forces there under Foote and Grant has taken Fort Donaldson and 15000 Prisoners including Genls. Buckner and Johnson, and came near getting Genl. Floyd, who they say deserted his men. the discharged men six in number I had put aboard the Steamer Erricson to day. their discharges was accepted on the 15th inst. they have gone home.  27th Day pleasant and warm. I was called to day to see one of our men who is suffering greatly with an obstruction of the bowels which has caused Lympanitis with severe inflamation. I staid with him all afternoon and night. I succeeded in giving him relief of the pain, but did not succeed in giving him a passage.  28th Day beautiful. we were mustered and inspected to day according to the Army regulations. 4 of 5 of our Companies were together for the first time since are on this Island. they all looked well and in good spirits, and presented a fine appearance. I visited my new patient again this afternoon. I find him without pain but as yet, no movement of the bowels.  This month will be long remembered by our troops that have seen active service. much has been done in different sections while at this point we have done little more than prepare for an Action, which I sincerely hope will soon take place and the 45th Regt. have an opportunity given them to display their Courage etc.
78  March, 1862.  1st Day very pleasant and warm. I was called late last night to a case of Inguinal Hernia. it was very large, and after working with it for over an hour I succeeded in reducing it, to the great relief of my patient. Case of obstruction of the bowels still the same, except their is very little pain.  To day I went to Buckingham Ferry, withing speaking distance of the Rebel Picket. they are a degraded sett of men, to judge by their conversation, which is nothing more than blagguarding, and the free use of profane language.  2nd Sunday. Day very warm, but pleasant. Maj. Russell Errett. P.M. U.S.A. paid this detachment of our regiment at Graham's, S.C. for Maj. E.E. Paulding P.M. U.S.A. I recd. two months pay from Oct. 31st up to Dec. 31st 1861, amounting to $261.16. I took a draft for $200 on the Assistant Treasurer of the U.S. at New York, dated Beaufort, S.C. March, 1st 1862, in favor of Daniel S. Kremer or order, signed Russell Errett. Add P.M. U.S.A. No. of Draft 365.  Nothing new to day. Sick doing as well as usual.  N.B. Thomas of Co. D. Died at 11 P.M. of Obstruction of the Bowels.  3rd Day Unpleasant with a storm and rain. recieved a large mail which brought us good news from our Army in different sections, and confirming the taking of Forts Henry and Donaldson, also of our troops being in possession of Nashville Tenn.  4th Day very pleasant. last night was quite a cold night for this Country, but we would not mind it at home. nothing of any importance occurred to day along our lines. wrote to Emilie.  5th Day very pleasant, heavy shower early this morning. had the pleasure of an introduction to Col. Neal Dow of the Maine Regt. he was very pleasant. sent by mail this day a Draft of $200 to D. S. Kremer by letter. all quiet along our lines. Buried N.B. Thomas. Wrote to Priscilla, enclosed Draft, and to Hattie C. Marr
79  6th Day boisterous and cold. negros say this is winter, but would be considered a burlesque on the word in our Country. reminds me very much of April weather at home. I vaccinated about 100 persons to day. the majority of them were negro's. they called it "vaccillate and oxsillate," they generally murder the Kings english whenever they talk. wrote to Jennie C. and Gussie W.  7th Day cold and stormy. this morning I noticed ice frozen on our door step, at about 8 A.M. it snowed quite hard for about three minutes, and then the sun shone quite warm. this the negro's say is winter now, and but few of them were to be seen all day. they kept close to their huts. Steamer Atlantic came in to day with a large mail. wrote to W. H. Chaimberlin.  8th Day pleasant and quite cool. Colonel Thos. Welsh returned to us much improved in health, and will resume his Command at Otter Island. we were all glad to see him. I vaccinated about 125 of our men to day. heard considerable firing towards Savannah.  9th Sunday quite warm, this morning we had quite a heavy frost. our Chaplin preached for us, most an excellent Sermon. firing heard again to day in same direction.  10th Day very stormy. Col Welsh left us and went to Otter Island. went to the Fort with him. nothing new to day.  11th Day very unpleasant, rained hard all day. went to Braddocks Point. Vaccinated the men there. wrote to Hon. E. Slifer.  12th Unpleasant with rain. a Steamer came in with a large mail. nothing new of any importance to day.  13th Day very warm and pleasant. we heard very heavy Canonnading again all day towards the Savannah River. News recieved to day was that New Orleans had surrendered to our Mississippi Fleet. I ordered this day from Evans and Hassel. No. 418 Arch St. Phila. a regulation  Hat, Epaulettes, Sword, belt, gauntlettes, Felt Hat, and Pistol Case. sick doing well. wrote Evans and Hassel, and Col. Thos. Welsh.
80  14th Day very pleasant. went to Hilton Head and purchased a McClellan Saddle and all the equipments, from a Lieut. Shunk Ordnance Officer, paid him $32.00 Cash. Lewis Watson of Co. A had his thumb badly shattered by the accidental discharge of his musket. I dressed his wound. wrote to Annie C. Linn.  15th Day very stormy. To day Capt. Whitney of our Regt. brought down the body of Captain E. Y. Rambo of Co. K. and a Corporal of his, who were both killed on Thursday morning last by the men of Capt. Scheifflein's Co. H. of our Regt, while out on a reconnoitering expidition on the Main land, at Madison's Plantation. 9 others were wounded, two dangerously so, and the others only flesh wounds. they had supposed them to be Rebels. they were led by Negro guides, and as the night was dark, they of Co. K. lost their way, and crossed Co. H.'s path and stopped at the house where the Rebels were known to assemble. Capt. S. halted them, but they say they did not hear the word, and as two of Capts. Rambo's men ran they supposed they were Rebels. So Capt. S' men (25 in number) fired and hit ten. Capt. R. returned the fire and hit one man in Co. H. it is a melancholy affair, and under the Circumstances no one can be blamed. they done what they had been ordered to do. it happened with our men at Otter Island, S.C. the bodies were sent home.  16th Sunday. Day lovely and quite warm. a mail arrived and brought us the news of the Capture of Manassas by our forces. the particulars we have not learned. we also recieved the news to day that Genl. Price in Arkansas, was killed, and his Army entirely annihilated. this is another glorious Union Victory. all honor is due Genl. Curtis of our Army.  In the evening a party of us went to Negro Meeting. they asked me to read them a Chapter. I done so. I then repeated to them the Lord's Prayer. they appeared very thankful indeed. their meetings is conducted very singularly indeed, and at the close, they shook hands all around, singing all the time and shucking.
81  17th Day pleasant, unusually so for St. Patrick's day. nothing new along the lines to day of a Military character. Lient. Col. Beaver arrived from Otter Island and says one of our wounded men died. the rest all doing well.  18th Day again pleasant and warm. heard considerable canonnading along the Savannah River. a reconnoitering party is to start out to night for the neighborhood of Fort Jackson. recieved our mail from the North. the papers brings us no late war news, an order having gone forth, that no late war movements would be allowed to be published, while the Army of the Potomac was advancing. this is right and proper. by this means the enemy can learn nothing of our whereabouts. the Rebellion is now being brought to a close speedily. England and France are becoming more reconciled to our blockades and actions, and begin to see that we are in earnest, and if necessary will give her a show of our abilities as regards good fighting etc. one at a time is all we ask, and all shall be accommodated. wrote to Jennie Cameron  19th Day pleasant and quite warm. nothing of any importance occurred to day along this line of operations. wrote to D. S. Kremer.  20th Day unpleasant with rain. the 3rd New Hampshire Regt. went over to the White House at the Ferry, and routed out some Rebels that were there and took four of them prisoners. they belonged to Col. Phillips Legion of Georgia. Some of our men were along over there. they never fired a Gun. the prisoners have been in service 8 mos. and are very tired of it, and say if again at home will stay there. Lieut. Col. Bennett of the 55th Regt. P.V. it is said was captured at the North Edisto while out reconnoitering yesterday. recd. a small mail to day.  All our forces that could be spared from the Island, was sent to Genl. Viele at Jones Island to day. he having despatched for them to protect his batteries at that point, as the Rebels are making preparations to storm his batteries from Savannah.
82  21st Day very warm and pleasant. the mail brought us more good news. Manassas is evacuated and is now in possession of our troops. also Leesburg etc. Genl. Curtis has had another battle at Pea Ridge, Ark. and has completeley whipped the combined forces of Price, McCullough, VanDorn and McIntosh, after three days hard fighting. the loss was heavy on both sides. Considerable excitement here all day. our men have been reconnoitering in all directions, have been fired upon by the Rebels, etc. the four prisoners we captured yesterday have joined our Army. they say it is the common belief among their men, that when we capture them, we always shoot them down etc. wrote to Miss S.S.Sc F.  22nd Day cold and high winds. I took the Splints off of Wm. Orner's Arm and find the fractured bones firmly united and perfectly natural.  thus have I succeeded in saving an arm after being (the bone) shattered to pieces with a musket ball, six weeks ago, causing a Compound Fracture of the Humerus. I am proud of this Surgical Operation, and it has convinced me that Conservative Surgery, will answer the purpose sometimes, notwithstanding the condemnation of it, by most Authors on Surgery. This Island has been examined very closely to day. trying to capture some Rebel spies that has been reported to have been on it, making observations etc. it is rumored that an attack will be made on this Island very soon. I do not credit the report. have not learned of the Capture of the spies as yet, if here, they will be taken.  23rd Sunday, day pleasant. recd. a large mail, and as usual it brought us more good news. the Capture of Newbern, N.C. and of more victories in the West. Our troops are now occupying Manassas and advancing towards Richmond, Va. Genl. Sherman also returned from Florida, and brings us news of the Rebel retreat from Jacksonville Florida, and of our troops holding that place. the Citizens ask for protection from our Government, it was given to them by Sherman. wrote to Mrs. G. VanV. and Dr McCay.
  83  24th Day cold and stormy. two deserters from Fort Pulaski came in. I did not see them myself. they are tired of Rebeldom. Some of our men and a detachment of the N. H. 3rd went over to the Main Land yesterday, and went into the Town of Bluffton, but found it deserted by the inhabitants. the mail was just made made up and the horse was tied outside to carry it off when they entered the Town. it was found so by our troops, both mail and horse was captured and brought to this Island. they found no white persons.  25th Day very pleasant and warm. Nothing of any importance occurred to day along our lines. all is quiet. This evening a party of us went out fishing for Crabs, we caught a fine mess in a short time. it was very amusing indeed to catch them.  26th Day very warm and pleasant. last night we had an alarm, caused by some Rebels in a boat in the Creek. our Picket fired into them and they made a hasty retreat. seen nothing more of them. have quite a number of new cases to day. wrote to D. S. K. and Sister.  27th Very warm, last night it blew a regular hurricane for a few hours. Maj. Jno. Kilbourne of our Regt. left for home to day on furlough, his health is somewhat impaired. wrote to Agg. E. Dale.  28th Day very warm and pleasant. To day we heard that Richmond Virginia was in our possession. the news was not brought by a Steamer, we therefore doubt its truthfulness. all quiet.  29th Pleasant and warm. felt quite unwell to day. am a little Billous. Nothing occurred worthy of note. wrote to Neal Duncan.  30th Sunday. very warm and sultry. am quite sick to day from a Billious attack. the Steamer Atlantic came in to day with a mail, also brought Genl. Hunter, who is to take the Command here. Genl. Sherman is ordered elsewhere. More good news from the East and West.  31st Still very warm and sultry. am feeling some better to day. I was visited by Dr. Geo. L. Andrew one of the Sanitary Committee. found  him very pleasant and communicative.
84  April, 1962.  1st Day pleasant with high winds. heard considerable firing in the direction of our Batteries on Jones and Bird Islands. am feeling much better to day. wrote to Misses Bella and M.V.  2nd Day very warm and sultry. nothing occurred of any importance to day. all appears to be quiet in this vicinity.  3rd Still very hot and sultry. all still quiet. I notice a large increase of vermin, such a Gnats, Fleas and Mosquitoes. wrote Kremer and Sister.  4th Day very warm. the Atlantic left for New York. Genl. Sherman and Staff also. Genl. Hunter has taken Command. I visited the Head to day. heavy firing heard in the direction of Harderville, S.C. on the main land. have quite a number very sick. Capt. W. R. Bigelow went home on a 30 days furlough, has Chronic Diarrhea.  5th Day pleasant and very warm. sick doing well. nothing of any importance occurred along our line of Picket.  6th Sunday, day pleasant. our Chaplin preached for us. was visited to day by a number of Army friends. the wind blew quite hard at times.  7th Day very pleasant and warm. A Steamer arrived and brought us a large mail. I recd. 7 letters. it was really a treat.  8th Still very pleasant. Maj. E. E. Paulding, Paymaster U.S.A. paid this detachment to day, from Jan. 1st 1862 up to March 1st 1862. I recd. $258.16 for two months services. I took a draft for $200 on the Assitant Treasurer of the U.S. at New York, dated April 8th 1862, at Port Royal, S.C. drawn in favor of Daniel S. Kremer or order. Signed E.E. Paulding, P.M. U.S.A. No. of draft 179. I paid $16 for forage for my horse two months. Considerable firing to day towards Savannah River. wrote to Evans and Hassall.  9th Day pleasant, with heavy showers in the morning. the firing yesterday was at Tatnalls Rebel fleet from our Batteries on Bird and Jones Island's. they were driven back. Sent Draft to Mrs. D.S. Kremer for Daniel S. Kremer for $200.00 this day.
85  10th Morning beautiful, at 8 A.M. Our Batteries on Tybee Island commenced bombarding Fort Pulaski. I went over to Jenkins Island and with the aid of a good glass I watched the firing from both sides for over an hour. both parties worked faithfully, the shells from our Guns would burst immediately over the Fort, while most of the enemies fell short. I then went to Seabrook to see the sick and afflicted. while there, I removed a Steatomatous Tumor from Lieut. Irvin's head of 10 years standing. I made a nice operation of it. I then extracted a shot from a Nego's tongue, that had been in for 5 months. he was shot through the cheek by his master while making his escape from him to this Island. I then returned home. in the evening I went to Braddocks Point, to witness the firing on the Fort, but it had ceased before I reached there, it being after night. through the night there was several shots fired. I have two Small Pox patients on hand.  11th morning again lovely. at daylight the firing commenced again from our Guns on the Fort. I went down to the beach and was then within 3 miles of the scene of operations. I watched the performance untill 11 A.M. during this time the Fort caught fire once, but was soon quelled. our shot struck the Fort time and again and always at the same place. I could see the dust flying every shot. while our shells would burst in and over the Fort, it was a beautiful picture. still I grew tired of it. I never seen a more magnificent sight. I then went up to the Alligator pond and there seen three of these ugliest of Animals, (Alligators) lying out in the sun. none of them was less than 8 feet in length and one must have been ten feet. I shot at one with my pistol and hit him on the head, and such a time as he had to get into the water was really laughable. I then took my dinner and left for head quarters. this was at 2 P.M. and the battle still raged furiously at the Fort. our men fired as many as 99 guns in 15 minutes. Our Mortars made the whole earth ring. Discharged 8 men from Service to day.
86  12th Day pleasant, but windy. yesterday I had left Braddocks but a few minutes, when the Rebels in Fort Pulaski hauled down their flag and ceased firing. our guns continued firing a short time but having no reply, was convinced that they wished to surrender the Fort. a boat went over well loaded with troops and took the Rebels prisoners, 386 in all officers and men. upon examination, the Fort was found completely damaged inside, and at the corner where I had noticed the dust flying yesterday, there was two holes knocked in large enough to drive a horse and wagon through. the shells from the Fort done little or no damage to our men on Tybee Island. they killed but one man for us, and none wounded. we wounded three of their men seriously, but killed none. it is really wonderful that there was so little damage done to the men on both sides. this morning the Stars and Stripes were hoisted on the old Fort, never again to be taken down I hope, as long as Pulaski stands. we have now free access to the mouth of the Savannah River. a short time ago the Citizens of Savannah offered $100,000 to any one for the Garrison of this Fort. I suppose they will not give the reward to us Yankees. while this bombardment was going on, Com. Tatnall with his Mosquito Fleet made several attempts to get to the Fort, but was as often driven back by our batteries on Bird and Jones Islands. to day heavy firing was heard in the direction of these batteries. to morrow the prisoners will be sent North. we recd. a mail to day. bringing papers up to the 7th inst. wrote to Kremer and Sister. Small Pox patients doing well.  13th Sunday. Day stormy. went to Hilton Head, and seen a number of the captured prisoners of the Fort. they are a rough looking sett of men, and principally foreigners. no two are dressed alike. it appears each one wore what he pleased. all appeared in
87  good spirits, and say our men fought well and hard, and acknowledged that they were badly whipped. they say they would never have surrendered untill the Fort would be knocked down, but they seen we were doing that, and in a half hours more time, the magazine would have blown up and them with it. so they thought best to surrender. they will all be sent North to morrow as prisoners of war. I had the pleasure of meeting my old friend Col. J. W. Shaffer of Genl. Hunters Staff. he is Chief Quarter Master of this division. he was glad to see me. wrote to Emilie, and to W. H. Chamberlin.  14th Day unpleasant with heavy showers. nothing new transpired to day. Another Steamer came in to day, bringing us more good news from the West. Genls. Buell and Grant have had a great battle and have came off victorious. the fight took place between Pittsburg and Corinth in Miss. the loss is great on both sides, supposed to be 18000, killed, wounded and missing on our side, and 30,000 killed, wounded and Prisoners on the Rebel side. our Com. Foote has also captured Island No. 10, without any loss of life. Genl. McClellan is advancing on Yorktown Virginia. thus the ball is proudly rolling on, and our glorious banner is floating again on the breeze. Wrote to Annie Linn  15th Rained very hard in the morning, Afternoon pleasant. rode down to Hilton Head. visited Capt. Campbell the Provost Marshal, and seen the balance of the prisoners from Fort Pulaski, including all the Officers. I was introduced and conversed with Col. Omstead, who was in Command there, also to Doctors McFarlan and Lungrene. I was very much pleased with them, they were quite talkative, but felt very sore, when anything was said about their cause. of course we talked but little on that subject. they appeared surprised to learn that so few of us were Abolitionists, they understood we were all of that school. I also seen their Chaplin, who was a Catholic Priest.
88  16th Day pleasant, but very warm. nothing of note occurred along the line of our Picket. Stewart Chronister of Co. E. was drowned to day while bathing in Calibogue Sound. wrote to Father.  17th Day very warm and sultry. The Atlantic came in and brought us a large mail, also good news from our troops in various quarters. the loss on both sides is not as great at Pittsburg and Corinth as was first reported, but Genl's. Beauregard and A. Sidney Johnston are both killed. the Merrimac, now Virginia, has made her second appearance in Hampton Roads, and is fast on Craney Island. Genl.  McClellan is attacking Yorktown Vir. Rebels, always have and do continue to lie. since our forces have taken Fort Pulaski they have found 28 dead bodies, concealed by the Rebels, instead of having but three wounded during the bombardment of the Fort. Yesterday the 8th Michigan, 4 Companies, while out reconnoitoring on Williams Island were attacked by 800 Rebels. the fight was very severe on both sides. the Rebels lost in killed and wounded, 100, we lost 11 killed and 35 wounded. went to Braddocks after night.  18th Day still very warm and sultry. returned from Braddocks Point. nothing new to day. all is quiet. wrote to J. B. Linn.  19th Day warm, but pleasant with cool winds. had a pleasant interview with a Mr. Remington from Jacksonville, Florida, a Union Man. he has suffered all kinds of persecution from the Rebels. he gave me a full history of his troubles. he is on his way North. nothing new to day.  sick doing well. wrote to Sabilla P. and Jennie Cameron.  20th Sunday. very warm. Genl. Benham called at our Head Quarters. he says he visited at this place 24 years ago, while an Engineer on this Scull Creek and Calibogue Sound. he says at that time Dr. Stony and family lived high here. Col. J. W. Shaffer of Genl. Hunters Staff and Lieut. Wilson of the Top. Engineers spent the afternoon with me and took supper. all quiet to day. wrote to Hon. Eli Slifer and Wm. H. Chamberlin.
89  21st This morning it rained quite hard. Afternoon very warm. had some very nice strawberries plucked off the vines in our garden. Small Pox men, convalescent. wrote to Bro. Ed. and Sister Priscilla.  22nd Day more pleasant, but cool. Last night our Picket's on Pinckney Island, noticed the Rebels busily engaged in making preparations as they supposed to attack them. they sent us word. when we immediately gave the signal for all to be on duty, reinforcements were sent to us for the Head, and in a short time we were fully prepared for any emergency. thus we lay in readiness all night, but they failed to make their appearance. when everything assumed their usual duties, all disappointed in not having an opportunity to show their courage and skill. to day all is quiet.  23rd Day very warm. had Peas for the mess of our own raising while here. Blackberries are very plenty and our men are making good use of them. all quiet to day. Genl. Hunter visited us.  24th Day still very warm and sultry. No news. all quiet. went to Braddocks Point. remained all night.  Two more cases of Varioloid.  25th Still warm. had a clam bake, done up in Yankee style. returned from Braddocks. wrote to Potter.  26th Day very warm. nothing of any importance has transpired within this past twenty four hours. all is quiet. had a shower of rain.  27th Sunday. day cool. waiting patiently for a mail from the North. had Green Turtle Soup for dinner, etc, etc.  28th Still cool and pleasant. Cotton, Corn and Potatoes, growing finely. all is very quiet on this Island. Small Pox patients doing well.  29th Day very warm and pleasant. Steamer Wabash left this Port for Yorktown, Vir. we are waiting patiently for a mail, have had none for two weeks.  30th Day very pleasant. Companies were mustered for payment. in the afternoon went crab fishing. had fine sport in catching them. in the evening attended a Negro funeral. I had four cases of Small Pox this month, lost none of them, nor none by any other disease.
90  May, 1862.  1st Morning very warm. Rained very hard at noon. nothing new to day. it is now two weeks since we had a mail from the North. Gun Boats and Schooners come and go almost daily and through them we have had some very favorable news from our Armies.  2nd Day pleasant and warm. in the morning went to Hilton Head, and had my Horse shod. in the evening went to Braddocks Point.  3rd Day very warm. returned from Braddocks. we recieved a large mail, and papers of a late date, Confirming the Capture of New Orleans and all the Forts and Batteries, which is joyful news to our United North. we also learn of the steady and cautious advance of Maj. Genl. McClellan on Yorktown. also of the advance towards Richmond of Genl's. Banks, McDowell and Fremont. from the West under Genl. Halleck, Buell and Grant and Pope, of a forward movement on Corinth. everything looks well, and victory after victory is crowning our advances.  4th Sunday, very pleasant and warm. all quiet along our lines. Sick doing very well.  5th Day cool and pleasant. another large mail came in, by Gun Boat Massachusetts, bringing news previous to Saturdays mail.  6th Day beautiful. This morning a party of us started with 100 of our troops, aboard the Steamboat Flora and took in tow several lighters containing about 25 Negros, on a foraging expidition to Spring Island, and landed at Dr. Geo. B. Edwards Plantation. on our way there we ran close to the mainland, at Colleton's Neck. the Captain noticed some Rebel Cavalry on shore. he threw several shells at them which caused them to mount their horses and were soon out of sight. Dr. Edwards has left a splendid home, which is fast going to destruction. we brought away with us about 500 Bus. of corn, three fresh milck Cows with calves, a cart, three Pigs, and a quantity of Negro clothing and furniture, which was given to them. had a splendid time and returned home all safe.
91  7th Day very pleasant and warm. went to Braddocks Point in a boat. had a splendid ride. Saw quite a number of sharks and very large.  8th Pleasant and warm. returned from Braddocks this morning. to day Co. I. of our Regiment was ordered to Otter Island S.C. for the purpose of strengthening the other part of our Regiment there. Nothing new along our Picket line. wrote to D.S. Kremer and W.H. Chamberlin.  9th Day very pleasant and warm. The Atlantic arrived bringing us a large mail, containing good news. The Rebels have abandoned Yorktown Vir. on the 5th inst, and Genl. McClellan with his large Army is in close pursuit of them. he will compel them to fight or surrender. thus have they again been driven from their strongest hold and showed their much boasted Southern Chivalry. we took 70 Guns, Tents, Clothing, Provisions, etc., etc., and a very large Amt. of Ammunition, they have gone towards Richmond.  10th Day pleasant and quite warm. nothing of any importance occurred to day in this command. Sick all doing well.  11th Sunday, very pleasant. visited at Stoney's and Pope's Plantations. also Spanish Wells. An order was recieved to day at these Head Quarters from Genl. Hunter, to have all able bodied Negro's capable of bearing fire-arms to report at Hilton Head to morrow forenoon. I suppose to arrange them in Military discipline, in order to use them in Forts and other places. I despise such an arrangement, and think it un-called for, and should not be recognized by Northern Troops.  Neither will it be, I feel confident it is wrong. The following is a true copy of said Order:  Head Quarters: Department of the South.  Hilton Head, South Carolina, May 9, 1862.  General Orders  No. 11.  The three States of Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, comprising the Military Department of the South, having deliberately declared,
92  themselves no longer under the protection of the United States of America, and having taken up arms against said United States, it became a Military necessity to declare Martial Law. This was accordingly done of the 25th of April, 1862. Slavery and Martial Law, in a free country, are altogether incompatible; the persons in these three States, Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, heretofore held as slaves, are therefore declared forever free.  David Hunter,  Major General  Commanding.  (Official.)  This was done by one man, in a few moments, while Congress has spent much time and millions of money to do th same thing for the past 60 years. how the like should have been disposed of by one person in so short a time, is almost miraculous. however I hope and pray the President will discountenance it, and reprimand the person who dared assume so much responsibility.  12th Day very warm and sultry. According to yesterdays Orders, the Negro's in our command were gathered here at our Head Quarters, and after being drawn up in line, the word forward march was given, they were taken to the Head under the care of a guard. there was 121 in all, many were proud of it, others not understanding the movement. was very much alarmed as they heard they were to be taken to Cuba and sold. they are now in charge of Terrells Engineer Corps, and will be uniformed and drilled as soldiers. for what purpose I am unable to say. Our men all feel highly insulted at this arrangement and protest against everything of the kind. wrote to Col. Welsh and Dr. Potter.  13th Day warm. all quiet along our line of Picket. am not feeling very well. recd. a number of papers from Hon. E. Slifer, Sec. of State. wrote to D. S. Kremer, B. and M. Vorse., Maj. I.M. Kilbourne and L. Rothschild, and ordered a pair of Boots, and sent home two Orange Canes, to D.S.K.
93  14th Pleasant and very warm. a heavy rain storm at night. Lieut. W. W. Tyson of our Regt. left on the Atlantic for home. To day a Steamboat came to the Head from Charleston, S.C. with a crew of 5 Negro's and their families. quite a good boat with 8 guns on. they manage it in the following way. when their officers left the Boat for Charleston, they told the crew to run down the Harbor and Anchor.  the darks held a meeting and concluded they would like to see the Star and Stripes once more. the zengineer said, (who was a black and a Pilot,) he would show it to them if they would do as he ordered. all agreed. they went and brought their families on board, then steamed by the Fort, (Sumter) and gave the usual signal three whistles, then made for our blockading squadron, hoisted the white flag, gave themselves up to our fleet. when an officer went on board and brought Boat and Crew to this place. they went to the flag ship Com. DuPont's, when an Officer asked who was Commander of that vessel, the Pilot, a negro, stepped up and said I am de boss of her Sir, and fatched her here safely. the Commodore recommends $500 to be given to the Pilot, and $1500 more to be divided among the Crew, as prize money. numerous rumors are afloat here as to the surrendering of different places, but no confidence is placed in them. This negro crew brought a Charleston paper with them, which says Norfolk is evacuated and Navy Yard burned. also that the Merrimac is sunk, all of which is good news to us.  15th Day cool and very pleasant. Co. B of the 76th Regt. P.V. now at Seabrook, was placed under my Medical Charge. I visited them to day.  found several sick and prescribed for them. I also visited as an act of humanity a poor Negro, with Small Pox, on the Elliott Plantation and administered to his wants. he had been chained in the woods by some persons. I ordered a shelter to be built for him. At this, (Elliotts) plantation, I noticed some magnificent Live Oaks, the largest I ever seen, also a splendid Orange Grove.
94  16th Day very pleasant and warm. Early this morning I was sent for to visit Pinckney Island to see a Sick Man with Apoplexy. I spent the whole day and untill 11 at night with him when he died. his name was Joseph B. Kunes of Co. D. 45th P.V. While on the Island we were in sight of the Rebels all the time on the Main Land. this is our advance picket station. I have the pleasure of having it to say that I was again shot at by these ruffians while there, but their shot fell short of us. we paid no attention to them.  17th Very warm and sultry. No news of any importance to day. all quiet along our line of picket. buried Jos. B. Kunes this evening with honors of war. went crab fishing.  18th Sunday. Rained very hard at night, with hail. Steamer came in to day with a large mail, and brought any amount of good news   from our different Armies. Genl. Geo. B. McClellan is in hot pursuit of the retreating Rebels from Yorktown. Our troops have had battles at West Point, and Williamsburg Vir. in both cases have been Victorious.  19th Day pleasant. Sick doing well. Small Pox patients 5 in number are all well and able for duty. wrote to Sallie E. C.  20th Very warm and sultry. was visited by Brig. Surgeon A. Crispell to day. find him very pleasant, had a dinner of Grey Squirrels and New Potatoes and Peas. they were very fine. wrote to S. S. Le F  21st Very warm. heavy cannonading heard near our Batteries on Bird and Jones Islands. all quiet along picket lines. waiting patiently for a steamer with a mail.  22nd Day very warm. heard that our troops at Otter Island had been moved to the North Edisto, on Sunday last. have heard nothing from our men to corroborate this statement.  23rd Still very warm and sultry. no news as yet from the North, all  quiet here. wrote to Joseph Green Esqr.  24th Day cool with rain. Our troops from Daufauskie and Tybee Islands are being moved to the North Edisto and our Engineers are erecting batteries there in that neighborhood.
95  25th Sunday unpleasant and cold; with heavy showers. I had fire in my room all day and evening and found it quite comfortable. the weather changes very suddenly here, more so than in the North. wind is very high to night. wrote to Annie C. Linn.  26th Day cool but pleasant. rode to Braddocks Point. found our Company there doing very well. they have been quite fortunate in catching a number of Sharks and Alligators the past week. returned in the evening. Mr. Starr came down from North Edisto and corroborates what we have heard about our men being sent there from Otter Island. they are making preparations to move towards Charleston. I discharged two men from Co. D. to day, on account of disability. Still have fire in our room.  27th Day very warm and sultry. heavy cannonading heard this afternoon at a distance. all quiet along our lines.  28th Day pleasant and warm. visited Hilton Head. went to the Genl. Hospital etc. All quiet there. Mail expected hourly.  29th Day very warm and sultry. recieved a large mail by the Genl. Burnsides. All well at home. Our Armies are still advancing slowly but sure. we have papers up to the 23rd inst. a battle is expected hourly at Richmond. the Rebels are desperate there and in large numbers, and deserters from their ranks inform us that in parts of Southern Virginia there is almost a famine, and now they are down to half rations and there is great is distress among civilians.  30th Day pleasant and warm. This morning Capt. Bigelow at Braddocks Point sent us up about 50 pounds of a Green Turtle that his boys caught last night. She was laying her eggs in the sand and had deposited there 144 eggs, and was returning to the water when they killed her. She weighed over 800 pounds. She had in her when killed 1100 eggs, so this made in all 1244 eggs, all perfect. it was a monster. they are a very plenty. wrote to D.S. K. Jno. B. Linn and Jenni C. I should have added 1000 more small eggs, that were still in the bag that was just being brought forth. in all there was over 2000 eggs in one Turtle.
96  31st Day very pleasant. I see by the late papers that the course pursued by Maj. Genl. David Hunter, in reference to his freeing all the slaves forever in this district, according to order No. 11, is disapproved by the President of the U.S. also by the Majority of Citizens. this is right and just what I expected of all reasonable men. the time may come when it will be done. that time is not here yet.  To day I recieved by Adams Express Co. a very handsome present, from Daniel A. Fisher of New York, a Government Cotton Agent, who lay sick here with Typhoid Fever for six weeks and under my charge. I wouldn't charge him anything for my services, so after he returned home he sent me this handsome present. it consisted of one of Irving's best Pistols, a seven shooter, with two boxes cartridges, and cartridge box, and belt, with all the trimmings. worth at least $25.00. wrote to Evans and Co. and W.H. Chln.  Lost one man from Co. D. with Apoplexy, the whole month.
97  June, 1862.  1st Sunday. Bright and lovely, but very warm. Another mail has arrived, but not distributed yet. wrote to D. A. Fisher.  2nd Very warm and sultry. went to the Head and seen the Erricson come in from New York. She brought us a small mail, also a number of recruits, and Officers who has been home on furlough. And little news of our Armies. McClellan was getting still nearer to Richmond, moving slowly, but surely. wrote to Dr Potter.  3rd Unpleasant with rain all day. all is quiet along our lines. men generally healthy and in good spirits. wrote to Neal Duncan  4th Day pleasant, with showers. recieved another mail by a gunboat. we heard to day that our troops on the Edisto had started for Charleston, in which is six Companies of our Regiment. the remainder of us here are feeling very badly that only a portion of our 45th is along. we all want to be there, but we are an indispensable force on the advance here. the Gun-boats are successful wherever they go on this expidition. I wish them God-Speed in their undertaking to capture Charleston. we are waiting anxiously for the result.  5th Day very warm. heard nothing from the expidition, except they had gone as far as Stono River without much opposition. we have a rumor to day that they were having a battle.  6th Day warm. Showers in the evening. we recieved news to day from our expidition rather unfavorable, the whole Land force about 6000 in number, under Brig. Genl. Wright, it is reported have been repulsed by the Rebel forces. Our Gun-boats was near Charleston.  7th Very warm. the news of to day from our expidition, contradicts the report yesterday, and the whole command have arrived at Stono Inlet, the place where they were to report to Head Quarters and form a
98  7th junction with Genl. Stevens Command, and the Navy. there has been considerable fighting along the road, but we have none of the particulars. the Cause, (we hear) of Genl. Wrights delay, was owing to the swamps he encountered on his march, we heard that Col. B.C. Christ of the 50th Pa. Vol's. was attacked to day at Port Royal Ferry and had his pickets driven in and that Beaufort S.C. was in danger.  the Col. is in Command there and has no troops but his own Regiment. there was some troops sent to him and a few Gun-boats. the Gideonites were all sent here, from there, for protection, as well as a great number of Contra-bands. we heard of a mail arriving this evening, bringing good news from all quarters, from our Armies. Corinth is evacuated and McClellan is fighting them sucessfully at Richmond. Fremont is at Strasburg Virginia, in hot pursuit of "Stonewall" Jackson, who had driven Genl. Banks, back to Harpers Ferry, and threatened Baltimore, but he was foiled in that. Jackson had 15000 men, and Banks had but 4000. his retreat was well managed.  Banks has gone forward again with re-inforcements, and is retracing his steps and will soon reach his old post at Strasburg.  8th Sunday. heavy showers to day. Col. Christ has been re-inforced at Beaufort and there is now no danger. recieved our mail. Genl. Butler at New Orleans, has recovered nearly all the Gold and Silver Coin and bullion, that was stolen from the U.S. Mint by the Rebels at that place, when this outbreak first began, and has it now in his possession. over one Million Dollars. Genl. Curtis in Arkansas has possession of the Capitol and has dispersed the Governor and his Cabinet, and Legislature to parts unknown. Citizens there are now enlisting in the Union Cause, as well as in North Carolina. both States will undoubtedly soon return under the protection of the Glorious old flag. Verily - the cause is rapidly regaining its lands and property.
99  9th Day very cool. fire in the room was very comfortable. heard nothing from the expidition to day. Maj. J. M. Kilbourn returned from home yesterday. wrote to D.S. Kremer and wrote to Sister Emilie D.  10th Very pleasant and warm. in the evening our picket on Pinckney Island reported to these Head Quarters, of an unusual Amount of Activity at the White House, (where the Rebels picket are) and that they brought there 11 boats and flats. we immediately re-inforced our pickets and lay upon our Arms all night, ready for them if they attempted to cross over to our side. they came not, it was a bright moonlight night, and low tide, and I presume this prevented them from undertaking their contemplated attack.  11th Still pleasant. all quiet to day. as yet nothing from our expidition towards Charleston. This evening we purposed Shelling the White House. we had the promise of a Gun-boat from the Head, but was disappointed. we was all in readiness, but our assistance did not come.  12th Day very pleasant and warm. Recieved by Express, from Evans and Hassall, of Phila. One Trunk, Containing our Epauletts, Belts etc,  the box containing Hats, Swords and Clothing has not yet arrived. we fear they are lost. these Goods were on board the "Oriental," that was wrecked at Hateras Inlet. I recd. my Epauletts, Belt, Gauntlets, etc. also a Green Silk Sash, which Messrs. E and H. sent me as a present from them. it is an excellent one, for which I am obliged etc. we heard from our expiditon towards Charleston. our forces had a brisk skirmish on James' Island, near Stono Inlet. we lost three men killed and several wounded and missing. our men buried 12 Rebels, wounded many, and have brought here a number of Prisoners. Genl. Hunter and staff returned to day. wrote Evans and Hassall.
100  13th Day very pleasant and warm. To day we succeeded in procurring a 30 pound Parrott Gun from the Fort, and a Squad of the Rhode Island Artillerists to man it. we took it to Buckingham Ferry opposite White House, a distance of 1 1/2 miles, and then commenced shelling where the Rebel Pickets was. they left in a great hurry. afterwards we crossed over to the main land in small boats, with a detachment of Co. D. and A's men of our  Regt. we then sett fire to all the buildings there and brought away a number of boats and destroyed others. then left for our shore. I accompanied the men, in case we were attacked that I might be of service to the men, but we could find no enemy within a mile where we went skirmishing. all returned unharmed. the night was delightful. I enjoyed the trip very much.  14th Still very warm. I went to the Fort to day and bought some supplies for our mess. I also recd. a letter from Col. Welsh at Stono Inlet. he informs me that they had a fight and that our men of the 45th behaved most nobly, and that they fired 41 rounds without ceasing, and that it made the Gun barrels so hot that it scorched their hands. Co. H. lost but one man killed and Co. I, had one wounded. the Rebel loss they are unable to give. Genl. Wright who is in command, told the Col. to thank his Officers and men, for their heroic fighting. they were expecting another fight next morning. this was on James Island. wrote Evans and Hassall.  15th Sunday. pleasant. Vanderbilt a Gun-boat came in from Fortress Monroe, and brings the news of our Army in Richmond. the Rebels Skedaddled to Danville Va. since contradicted. On examining a haversack that we found at the White House night before last, we found a Savannah Republican of the 10th, in which we found news that we had not yet recieved from the North. they have (it says) no hopes of Beauregards Army, it is played out. home-made salt is advertised at 50 cts a qt. a few bus. on hand. we pay here in the Head Quarters 42 cts a Bushel, quite a difference.
101  16th Day quite cool with rain and high winds. no news from any section this day. wrote Thos. Welsh, Col. HS P.V.  17th Day very disagreeable, cold, wind and rain. found it necessary to have fire on the hearth to be comfortable. yesterday I tried the favorite soup of the South, made from the Okra plant. it was very good indeed.  18th Very warm and sultry. recieved a large mail. Mississippi River is entirely in our possession. McClellan is still gaining ground towards Richmond. Our Armies are still successful in all directions except our expidition towards Charleston. we hear to day that the forces under Genl. Stevens attacked a Fort on James Island, and met with a heavy loss on his side, that of the Rebels is unknown. Stevens had but few men and was compelled to retreat. he was to have been re-inforced from Genl. Wright, but a swamp was between them and it was impossible for Wright to render him assistance, had this been done, we would have gained a victory. Our six Companies was with Wright and therefore was not in the fight, which took place on Monday last. our loss in Killed, wounded and missing is supposed to be 679. one of our men was so daring as to enter the Fort, catch a Rebel by the hair on his head and dragged him into our Camp a prisoner. Genl. Stevens fought bravely, twice he entered this Fort with a handful of men and was as often driven out. he wept like a child, when he found himself unable to hold his position against such great odds.  19th Very warm. Maj. E.E. Paulding, Paymaster, U.S.A. paid this detachment to day, from March 1st up to April 30th 1862. I recd. $261.16 for two months services. I took a draft for $200 on the Asst. Treas. of the U.S. at New York, dated Port Royal S.C. June 19th 1862, drawn payable to my order. signed E.E. Paulding, P.M.U.S.A. No. of draft 412. I had $16, two months forage deducted. I recd. the balance of my equipments, Hats, Sword etc. amounting in all, my last order $55.25. also 1 Pair Boots $8. wrote to Lt. Jno. Gelbaugh Co. K.
102  20th Day warm and pleasant. had a present given to me to day, of 10 large Turtle eggs, also some new Cabbage, from the negro's, who I have attended at different times when sick. they frequently make me presents of Fish, Vegetables, etc. wrote to Hon. E. Slifer and D. S. Kremer.  21st Very warm indeed. To day it is circulated at the Head, that Richmond, Va, is in McClellan's hands, and that 10,000 of our troops was blown up Torpedoes. this comes in a Charleston, S.C. paper. We also heard to day that Genl. Benham was placed under arrest, for dis-obeying orders at Stono Inlet. he was ordered not to advance upon James Island at the time he did, but he it appears did advance, and this explains why Genl's. Wright and Stevens forces was not moved at one time as was the arrangement. had they obeyed orders, we might have saved the lives of many of our men. Recieved a large mail this evening. all things is progressing finely with our Armies.  22nd Sunday. warm and sultry. went to preaching this morning at Popes Plantation. I also sent a draft for $200 to D. S. Kremer. No. 412. on the U.S. Treas. at New York. signed E. E. Paulding, P. M. U.S.A. enclosed it in a letter to Sister Priscilla Kremer. wrote to M. L. [Purints].  23rd Day very warm and sultry. went to Braddocks Point in the evening, found Capt. Bigelow and 6 of his men quite ill. remained all night. we have nothing new to day along our lines.  24th Very warm and sultry. returned this morning from Braddocks, and was highly gratified before leaving to find the sick more comfortable. they have so much confidence in my skill as a Physician and Surgeon, that they frequently say they get better after having me to see them. it is pleasant to have the confidence of your patients, and I think it has an excellent effect. Nothing of any importance occurred along the line of our picket the past 24 hours. Thermometer was 125 degrees in the shade.
103  25th Warm and sultry. it is growing warmer every day. Still we have a pleasant breeze mornings and evenings. Sick doing very well.  26th Hot. went to the Head this morning. Col Goods Regt. 47th P.V. arrived there from Key West, in it is James Wolfe from Lewisburg. I called to see him and had a long chat. he likes soldiering very well. I promised to write to his Mother for him. we are now luxuriating upon Green Corn, Tomatoes and Okra. wrote to Mrs. Wolfe.  27th Very hot and sultry. I recieved to day the bal. of the money on different Officers, for the bill of Military Goods bought from Evans and Hassall. we recieved a large mail from home.  28th Still very warm and sultry. I went to the Head this morning and sent to Evans and Hassall, by Express, the Amt. of their bill for Military equipments bought by my order from them May 8th 1862. I sent them $558.75 less St. G.D. Smiths draft sent by himself for $34 and the Express charges $3.10 I sent cash $521.65, Draft $34 Express $3.10 making in all the full amt. $558.75. Recieved news from home, all well as usual etc. yesterday I discovered that my throat was very sore. to day I recognize in it, ulceration, inflamation etc. amounting to Diptheritis. it is very painful and annoying. I am using Strong Gargles etc.  29th Sunday. very warm. recieved another mail. McClellan still looking at Richmond. Armies in the West doing nobly. East Tennessee will be soon rid of Rebels. my throat is some better to day. still very painful. all quiet here. wrote to J. B. Linn.  30th  Very hot. this being the last of the month, and again time to muster the men for pay, it was accordingly done by our Lt. Colonel. we all put on our Epauletts, New Hats etc. and made a fine appearance. our Regt. is the only one in this Division of the Army that is equipped according to Regulations.  This month I have had a great amount of serious illness in this detachment, principally Dysentery and Bilious Fever. I had excellent success. not a man died.
104  July, 1862.  1st Day very warm. Our troops with the expidition towards Charleston are being brought here and to Beaufort, as it is more healthy. the Gun-boats are holding Stono Inlet. for the present the advance towards Charleston is abandoned. wrote to Sister Priscilla.  2nd Very hot and sultry, with an occasional shower. we heard this evening that the balance of our Regt. had arrived from Stono, and were landing down at the Head. this is good news to us. Our boys killed an Alligator this evening measuring 6 1/2 feet. we will have some of the steak for breakfast.  3rd Still very warm. the Alligator Steak was very good and tasted to me like Hallibut Steak. Our Regt. has arrived at the Head and are encamped above the Hospital. the 6 companies I mean, they have quite a number of Officers and men very sick. heavy showers at night.  4th Day lovely. went to the Head and seen the bal. of our Regiment, escorted a number of the Officers out to our own Head Quarters, then went to Co. A's and enjoyed a splendid dinner. there was salutes fired in honor of the day from our Fort's and the Navy, flags flying etc. in the evening it rained very hard.  5th Very warm and sultry. Sick doing very well. 8th Maine Regt. lost 3 men last night while on Picket on Pinckney Island. one killed and two taken prisoner. I presume from carlessness.  6th Sunday. hot. went to Braddocks Point, returned in the evening. Sick doing well there. recd. a large mail. Papers say Genl. Fremont has resigned, and that Genl. Pope has taken his place in the Shenandoah Valley. Sec. of War Stanton has also resigned and Genl. Banks has taken his place. Genl. McClellan has moved his Army on to James River, this being a more desirable position. the President has called for for 300,000 more troops.
105  7th Day very warm and sultry. nothing new to day along our line of Picket.  8th Still very warm. visited the Head in the evening. seen a number of the Officers and men of our Regt. there. we recieved an order this evening to move our Camp to Elliott's Plantation.  9th Day very warm. we was relieved at our different picket stations by the 3rd N. Hampshire Regt. this morning, and our detachment moved to Elliott's Plantation and there pitched our tents in a large Pine Grove, along side of Port Royal Harbor, and only two miles from Hilton Head, where we will have the Sea breeze and have plenty of room for our whole Regiment. the balance of it, will join us in few days. the negro's were very sorry to see us leave our different places, as they said we were the only troops that never gave them trouble.  they told me I had done them great service, when sick, and hoped the Lord would reward me, also Uncle Samuel.  10th Very warm and sultry, but we are enjoying an excellent breeze in our new Camp. we are very well pleased with it. I selected this place, considering it the most healthy place on the Island. I discharged three men, that went home to day. had a heavy rain and storm at night.  11th Day very warm and sultry. Policing the Camp is the general order of the day. two Companies of our Regt. joined us to day. transportation being scarce, can only bring a part at a time.  12th Day warm, excessively so. the balance of our Regt. arrived in Camp to day. there is quite a number of sick and broken down men, caused by great exposure.  13th Sunday. warm but pleasant. we are pretty well fixed up in Camp, and military matters moves along as it did when we were first together. the Band has improved very much and the Regt. looks very well together. they present a fine appearance on dress Parade.
106  14th Day very pleasant and quite warm. Mrs. Austin Curtin arrived in Camp. it was really a great treat to see a Pennsylvania Lady. She is a very pleasant woman. we was visited again by the U.S. Paymaster. I recieved two months pay up to June 30th 1862. I recd. $261.16 for two months services, less $16 for forage for my horse. I took a draft for $225 on the Asst. Treasurer of the U.S. at New York. dated Port Royal, S.C. July 14th 1862, drawn payable to my order and signed by Maj. E. E. Paulding, P.M. U.S.A. No. of Draft 557.  15th Very warm and sultry. was visited to day by Brigade Surgeons, Dalton, Craven and Crespill. they took dinner with me. had a pleasant time. wrote home and sent draft No. 557 for $225 on the Asst. Treas of N.Y. payable to any order, which I send for the use of D. S. Kremer. I also ordered a Trunk from Evans and Hassall. Wrote to D. S. K.  16th Very warm. quite a number on the sick list. this evening we recieved orders to pack up and be ready to leaved the wharf at Hilton Head to morrow evening. we expect it is for a trip to Virginia. we were all glad of it, as we are very tired of lying around in Camp.  17th Still warm. Clinic somewhat smaller this morning. I notice there is more Bilious derangements in Camp, among the men than anything else. all are busy to day packing up. we gave the negros all our furniture as we were not allowed to carry it with us. at dark all were ready to leave camp. we marched the men to the wharf at the Head. had quite an exciting time to get our Horses and baggage on board a Schooner. Officers and men and Officers baggage was put on the Steamer Arago. the Schooner was taken in tow by the Arago.  went to bed at 1 A.M.  18th Day pleasant, but very warm. all things being ready we bid good bye to Hilton Head, S.C. at 12 M. Afternoon passed off pleasantly. I made the acquaintance of Captain Gadsden of
107  the Steamer Arago, and he kindly assisted me in making our sick comfortable. he and all his Officers, I found to be Gentlemen in every respect. the Arago is a first class Steamer, and belongs to a Mr. Fox of N.Y. she is a mail Steamer plying between N. York and Havre. retired to bed early as I was very tired and nearly worn out.  19th Morning beautiful. I found quite a number of our men that are Sea Sick. as yet I feel very well. the day passed along very pleasantly. nothing occurred to make our journey unpleasant. we have quite a number of refugees on board from St. Augustine, Florida, Ladies, Gentlemen and Children, also a number of Paymasters and Sick Officers.  20th Sunday. morning pleasant and cool. we passed Hatteras Inlet in the night. I was sleeping at the time and escaped Sea Sickness. Our Chaplain preached on board the Arago at 11 A.M. I led the Singing. Afterwards a number of us joined together and had an excellent sing of Sacred Music, Ladies and Gentlemen. we arrived off Fortress Monroe at night 10 P.M. remained on board.  21st Very warm. this morning we recieved orders to land at Newport News, and report to Genl. Burnsides. after landing I took our sick to the Genl. Hospital. then went by invitation of Lieutenants Shorkley and Beaver to their Tent. took supper, remained all night, took breakfast, and went to our Camp. while there I recd. a number of friends from Lewisburg and elsewhere, belonging to the 51st P.V.  we had a fine chat, and all enjoyed it.  22nd I found our Camp, and all hands to work. it is on the road to Bethel. our Camp equipage did not all arrive untill night. we were very hungry before we recd. it.  I wrote a short note home, while on the Arago yesterday, and to day I notified them of my whereabouts etc.
108  23rd Day very warm, with showers. Sick list this morning was very heavy, owing to the men eating truck purchased from the numerous Sutler Stands here. I find there are a large  number of troops here and more a coming. we have all our tents up and it begins to look like home again.  24th Day cool with Showers. our Camp is looking very fine already. we are beside a very large peach Orchard, and have excellent shade for our Hospitals etc. the water here is very good, much like the water at home. Sick doing well. I notice close by us the wrecks of the Cumberland and Congress. they have found a resting place at last.  25th Very warm and sultry. nothing new to day. all quiet in this Division. was visited by many of my old friends of the 51st Pa. Vols. wrote to Hon. E. Slifer  26th Still very warm. went up to the Landing. had my Horse Shod. visited our Sick in Hospital. all doing well. I had the pleasure of seeing Major Generals, Halleck and Burnsides, also Brig. Generals, Parks, Dix and Reno. they had been on a visit to Maj. General McClellan, up the James River.  27th Sunday. Day warm but pleasant. was busy all morning with our Sick. a few of then are very Sick, and require close attention. wrote Miss Hattie C. Marr  28th Day very warm. lost one man in Hospital to day, with Typhoid Fever. the rest of the sick are doing very well. he belonged to Co. K. named John Essler.  29th Very warm, and sultry. This morning Dr. Potter was placed under arrest for drunkenness and neglecting his business, and the Colonel placed me in charge of the Medical Department. I am now Acting Surgeon of the Regt. As we gave a great many Sick on hand it keeps me very busy. Dr. P is to be Court Martialed and discharged from Service. he is now confined to his Tent and under guards.
109  30th Still very warm. Sick doing well. received orders to pack up all extra baggage etc. and be ready to move at a moments notice. Dr. P. is very humiliating to day, and has offered to make any Apology to the Colonel that he might ask, but the Colonel says he has gone too far, and if this was the first offence he would release him, but as it is an old story, and many of the Officers are tired of him, they insist that he shall be discharged. I feel sorry for him and hope he will be released.  31st Warm, with showers. The Colonel has withdrawn his intentions of sending Dr. P. before a Court Martial, and has told him his resignation must be sent in. the Doctor has sent in his resignation. Hospital No. 2 was organized to day by the Colonel. The Hospital Steward left to day, for Phila. on six days furlough. So I am entirely alone. Surgeon, Asst. Surgeon, and Hospital Steward, is more than one man can fill, to do himself justice, but I am in for it, and so far have got along very well.  We are now temporarily placed in Brig. Genl. Stevens Division, And in the 9th Corps-de-Armee, All under Maj. General Burnsides.  Three Officers resigned to day, in preference to appear before the examining board.  I sent home my medicine chest, in care of our Hospital Steward.
110  August, 1862.  1st Day very warm and sultry. Brig. Genl. Stevens, inspected our Regiment this evening. we also received Orders to pack up all our baggage etc. and be ready to march at a moments notice, where we know not. Dr. Potter's resignation was accepted, and he is now a Citizen. I am sorry for him. Several Officers resigned to day, they having been notified to appear before the examining board, but declined. The Colonel is bound not to have any incompetent Officers. Others will be sent on the same track.  2nd Still warm and sultry. Sick doing very well. Our extra baggage is all being hauled down to the Landing at Newport News, Vir. turned over to the Post Quarter Master there and placed in his charge, for safe keeping. Dr. Potter left for home to day. I really pitied him,  although his abuse to the rest of us Officers, was shameful. wrote to Bro. and Sister Kremer.  3rd Sunday. very warm. Maj. Genl. Burnsides Division, Commenced embarking on Transports to day. I removed our Sick to the Genl. Hospital at Newport News, Vir. we also had three days rations cooked. am feeling very tired to night.  4th At daylight this morning we struck our tents, and loaded them on wagons and sent them to the Landing. we then marched down and went on board the Elm City. Genl. Stevens and Staff are with us, our destination is unknown to us. it is now 7 P.M. we are off the mouth of the Rappahannock, in the Chesapeake Bay, and having a delightful time. after dark we passed the Light Ship at the mouth of the Potomac. I retired early.  5th Morning lovely. I slept well last night. I arose at 4 1/2 A.M. In looking along the banks of this Noble River, I am reminded of our own noble Susquehanna, the Bluffs and Fields of Green Corn. Shows that the Farmers has been busy. we passed Mathias Point, where
111  Capt. Ward was killed by the Rebels, at 9 A.M. we ran aground within 100 yards of Aquia Creek, where we learned we was to remain, and guard this Rail Road terminus  and 7 miles of it in the Country. we disembarked at 6 P.M. and retired early. wrote to Bro. and Sister Kremer.  6th Very warm and sultry. this morning early we put on board the Cars 8 Companies and went into Camp at Brook's Station, 5 miles from Aquia Creek. 2 Companies remained at Head Quarters with the Colonel. I had my Hospital Tents etc. pitched on a hill over-looking Camp, and in a beautiful place. I worked hard to day. we have excellent water.  7th Still very warm. have been fixing up all day. the Cars are passing every few hours, ladened down with soldiers. we are 5 miles from Falmouth and 8 from Fredericksburg. It is reported here that Genl. King of Pope's Division has been having a brisk skirmish about 12 miles from here, and has been quite successful in his exploits. am feeling at home again in my new quarters. wrote Hon E. Slifer.  8th Day very warm. My hospital Steward returned to day. he was too late for the examination. afternoon rode down to the Landing, seen the sick there. while there we recd. a large mail, and in it I recd. an order from Surgeon General, H. H. Smith, that I was appointed Surgeon of our Regt. by order of the Governor, A. G. Curtin, and that my commission would be forwarded immediately, and that I was promoted to this position for Meritorious Conduct, a higher honor could not have been conferred on me.  9th Still very warm. Sick doing very well. I wrote a number of letters, Viz. H. H. Smith Surg. Genl., L. Thomas, Adjt. Genl. Hon. E. Slifer, and Jas. Wolfe. also to Evans and Hassall, ordering Trunk, Coat etc. and to Bro. and Sister Kremer. to night a Massachusetts and New York, Batteries arrived in our Camp. Received congratulations from Officers and men, of my promotion etc.
112  10th Sunday, very warm and sultry. it is said the Ther. was 120 degrees in the shade. I find it is much warmer here than it was in South Carolina. I am told that we are within 18 miles of Fairfax County Court House, where I was last July, 8 miles from Stafford C.C.H. which is near Ocoquan, the Creek by that name runs close by our Camp. I sent Quarterly Report to Surgeon General Hammond, U.S.A. also the Monthly Report to the Medical Director, of Burnsides Division.  11th Day warm, every appearance of a shower, which would be very acceptable. no news to day of any importance. am working hard to have Dr Potters business settled up. wrote to Misses. H. C. Marr and S. S. LeFevre.  12th Day more pleasant, had a heavy shower of rain. Recd. news of a heavy battle being fought at Culpepper C. House. Genls. Pope, Banks, Siegel and McDowell engaged. Rebels had Stonewall Jackson, Ewell and others with 50,000 men. battle was on Saturday. heavy losses on both sides. Burnsides is moving with nearly all of his Army same direction. My Asst. Surgeon arrived, Dr. Charles Styer, a man that I attended at Washington City, while I was in the 3 mos. Service. he had Typhoid Fever. Sick doing well. wrote to Annie C. Linn.  13th Day cool and very pleasant. more fighting yesterday, and the Rebels are retreating before Pope. The Pa. R. Corps, are being sent up the Rail Road to day from McClellan's Army. wrote to the Medical Director.  14th Day pleasant. to day we recd. the sad intelligence of a Steamboat being run into last night on Chesapeake Bay and sunk. there was 279 Sick and convalescent patients on from Fortress Monroe Hospitals. we fear a number of our men are lost, those that we left behind.  as yet we have no particulars. about 73 were lost.  15th day very cool with heavy showers. The Steamer West Point, was the Hospital Boat that was Sunk of the 13th. a number of our Convalescent patients was on board. as yet we know of but three belonging to our Regt. was lost. My 2nd Asst. Surgeon, Dr. R.R. Wiestling arrived.
113  16th Day very warm, night cool. Sick doing very well. I fear we will have any number of Intermittent Fever patients in our Regt. if we remain here long, as we already have trouble with this disease. I received two new tents to day.  17th Pleasant, Sunday. Our Chaplin preached to the Regiment. Genl. Pope is still hunting up Rebels, with one wing of his Army, and they are retreating towards Richmond. The papers say the new levy of troops, (300,000) are already waiting marching orders, and many have already gone to the field, and they say the additional 300,000, will be raised without drafting, in nearly every State, and probably without it in any. the whole North is more aroused than ever, and all wish to end this war as soon as it can be done. Wrote to Ed. the 5th Pa. Reserve Corps. passed here this evening, in which is Capt. Thos. Chamberlins Company, all are well. wrote Bro. and Sister Kremer.  18th Day pleasant, night cool. the papers of this morning inform us of the evacuation of Harrisons Landing, by McClellan, and that he is marching towards Williamsburg. no other news of any importance.  19th Very warm. Troops still continue to come and pass on up the Road. it is reported now that the whole of McClellans force is coming.  20th Still very warm and sultry. Sick list decreasing. Thousands of Troops passed here to day. My Horse has the distemper very bad. One of our boys had his Arm broken by jumping off the Cars while in Motion. I found on examination that the Radius was fractured. I used Barton's Method for such cases.  21st Day cool, with rain. Troops are still passing us, as much as 20 Regiments a day goes by. Genl. Porters Division are now being sent forward. Cavalry and Artillery, with their baggage wagons take the road, and are passing us hourly. heavy canonading was heard all day yesterday. Report says the Rebels are within 10 miles of Fredericksburg in strong force, and 18 miles from us. we expect to see them every day.
114  22nd Day very Cool with showers. I received my Commission to day, as Surgeon, of the 45th Regt. Pa. Vol's. from Governor, Andrew G. Curtin, it dates from August 4th, 1862. I now rank as Major of Infantry, and receive the pay and emoluments as such. this is the third Commission that I have received from the Governor, since this Rebellion has commenced. 250 of our men went out reconnoitering to day. troops are still passing in great numbers. Genl. Heintzelman's division is now on the road. Cannonading heard again to day, in the direction of Fredericksburg. the Rebels are concentrating their forces on the Virginia Central R.R. wrote to Hon. J. Wells.  23rd To day we had a severe storm. it rained very hard for some time. heavy canonading is going on in our front. all day and to night, there is warm work in the directions of Culpeper, C.H. Some Engineers went up the R.Road this evening. wrote to Miss. E. Billmyer and Bro. and Sister K.  24th Sunday, cool all day. All quiet in this region. Canonading was not heard. To days paper says that Genl. Seigel entrapped 2000 Rebels, and took them prisoners, near Culpeper C.H. Genl's. McClellan and Burnsides passed here to day from the Landing. four heavy Batteries passed to day.  25th Day very pleasant. visited Acquia Cree. I found there several friends belonging to different Regiments. I noticed the Harbor lying full of Transports. Some 150, all landed with Government supplies. I then took the train for Fredericksburg.  26th Very warm. this morning I called at Burnsides Head Quarters and had a talk with W.H. Church, Medical Director of this Army Corps. I then took a stroll through Fredericksburg, was not favorably impressed with the place. there is a few very fine residences, and any number of very old and inferior buildings. the place is situated on the Banks of the Rappahanock River, is very uneven and irregularly laid out. Streets and pavement very poor. I returned to Camp in the Afternoon very tired.
115  27th Day very warm and sultry. Visited our detachment at Potomac Bridge. Genl. Sumner's Division passed here to day, in which was Genl. Thomas F. Meagher's Corps. heavy canonading heard all day.  28th Very warm. Last night we received word that Popes Army was retreating, and Stonewall Jackson was within 16 miles of Washington. this we did not believe. Shortly afterwards Sumner's Division returned from Fredericksburg. this we could not understand, untill later, we learned they were to report at Alexandria, a mistake had been made in some way. To day the news is that Col. Fitzhugh Lee was committing depredations on our picket along the R. Road near Manassas. Canonading is still going on.  29th Day very warm and sultry. Visited the Landing. Fredericksburg is being evacuated by our Union Citizens. the Rebels are advancing on the place. Burnsides is still at his Head Quarters at Falmouth, and is ready to give them a warm reception if they attempt to cross the Rappahanock River. we are all expecting a raid on our lines, and will fight them hard, every man is well provided for etc. I had the pleasure to day, of making the acquaintance of Capt. Morris of our Navy, late of the ill-fated Cumberland, and now Commanding a Squadron of Gun-Boats. heavy canonading heard all day. wrote to Bro. and Sister Kremer.  30th Very pleasant. the report of yesterday was without foundation, and occurred in this way. the Pickets were being releived by a new sett. Some Negro's see it, and gave the alarm that the enemy were advancing. in a short time afterwards, re-connoitering parties was sent out, for miles around, and returned with the above information. all is quiet in this section of country to day. We received good news from the vicinity of Manassas. McClellan, Pope, Banks, Seigel and McDowell are having warm work, with Jackson's forces, but are surrounding them, and a heavy engagement is expected. Our Hospital and Regiment, received a fine treat from the Ladies of Lancaster County, Vegetables etc.
116  31st Day very cool. this was a busy day for our men, removing government stores, property etc from Fredericksburg and Falmouth. everything of any value was sent to Aquia Creek, and put on transports for Alexandria, Vir. at dusk all things being removed except some Hay and damaged stores. the buildings was sett on fire and destroyed. then the wire bridge across the Rappahannock was blown up. nothing remained of our forces but a few of Burnsides Rickett Guard. the General and Staff soon after left and took their Boat the Alice Price as their Head Quarters again. the whole affair was well managed and all sent off in good order. nevertheless we were constantly expecting an attack upon the whole line. to day I received orders to pack up my Hospital supplies etc and be ready to move at a moments notice.  It rained and stormed all day very hard. was mustered for pay. The news from our Army in the vicinity of Manassas is very encouraging. a heavy battle was fought.
117  September, 1862.  1st Day very unpleasant, with a tremendous storm and rain. we have been re-inforced to day with a battery of Artillery, Cavalry, and two Regiments of infantry. received orders to send all my sick in Hospital and those unfit for duty, to Genl. Hospital, at Alexandria. I done so and sent two nurses with them, 53 in all. heard no canonading since Saturday. we still expect an attack on us here. we are now drawn up in line of battle, and will contest the ground.  2nd Day very cool. we have been busy all day moving stores and government property, from the different stations along the Rail road, and have all away and at the landing except our own Regimental property. a number of our men are out now blockading the roads, to prevent a sudden surprise on us here. burned Potomac Creek Bridge.  3rd Day warm and pleasant. men are still kept busy blockading the roads, and we are shipping stores as fast as we can. the object is to evacuate this place. Our Picketts have all been drawn in to Brooks Station. The Rebels are in Fredericksburg in force.  4th Still warm and pleasant. this morning we all moved to Aquia Creek. the rest of the troops are nearly all gone, we bringing up the rear. burnt the bridge over Oakeekee Creek.  5th Very warm. Troops all gone except our own Regiment. While some of our men, were out on Pickett to day, they foolishly left their posts without Arms, and 3 of the 5 were taken prisoners. the other 2 reached Camp in safety. we pursued the Captors a few miles, but they being Cavalry and ourselves Infantry, we had to leave them to their fate. Rebels are still coming in to Fredericksburg.
118  6th Very warm. at noon to day we embarked on the Steamers Express and Niagara for Washington City. before leaving we had orders to burn the buildings, Dock, Cars etc. which we done effectually, also a number of government Stores, of but little value, nearly all damaged. we saved all the Locomotives and good cars, put them all on transports and sent them elsewhere for further use. while the conflagration was at its height, the Steamboat bells and whistles made an unearthly noise. it was really very exciting. we left Aquia Creek, at 1 P.M. and bid farewell to our old home.  As we went gliding along, I noticed a great number of shad fisheries, near Mt. Vernon, on both sides of the River, also many pleasant residences. the Scenery along the Potomac is beautiful is beautiful and very romantic. at 4 P.M. we passed Mount Vernon, where rests the remains of the immortal Washington. all is quiet there, he sleeps his last sleep - "Peace to his Ashes." his country is now all excitement, and our Capital is again threatened to be destroyed by Traitors and Rebels. About one mile above is Fort Washington, a very substantial structure. from here we can see the City of Washington. the dome of the Capital is plainly seen with the naked eye, distance about 20 miles. the River is lying full of all manner of transports, the like I have never witnessed before. we are nearing Alexandria, and as we pass, we are saluted by thousands of our fellow soldiers, Steamboat whistles and bells. at dusk we reached the wharf at 6th Street Washington. after landing our troops and unloading our stores we went into Camp for the night.  I was compelled to leave my Horse Dixie
119  7th Sunday, day pleasant. at early dawn we moved our men up 7th St. to cook rations etc. preparatory to a march. I find the citizens here are not fearful of the enemy approaching. McClellan has charge of all the fortifications around the City. Pope is removed from his command, and sent West. Genl's. Burnside, Banks, Hooker, Sumner and Siegel, have sole control of the field, but all under McClellan. the enemy are now threatening to cross into Maryland in force.evening, the enemy are across and are now in Frederick, Md. 5000 strong, but have been repulsed by Genl. Wool. we left Washington, at 3 P.M. and marched 12 miles and then halted for the night. our baggage train failed to reach us, so we done without supper and shelter. took "terra firma," for it and slept sweetly untill daylight.  8th Very warm and sultry. marched but a few miles to day. went into Camp beyond Leesboro, where we again entered our old 9th Corps de Armee, commanded by Genl. Jesse Reno, placed in Genl. O. Wilcox's, 1st Division, and into Col. Welsh's, Brigade (the 2nd) consisting of the 45th and 100th P.V. and 46th N.Y. and all under Burnsides.  9th Very warm. I am feeling very sick from a billous attack. I was compelled to take the Ambulance the last two miles of the march. passed through Mechanicsville and Brookeville, both small places. encamped beyond the latter place. we are now 28 miles from Baltimore and about the same from Frederick.  10th Day cool, am no better to day. have suffered intense pain in my head. totally unable to be up and about Camp. I therefore keep quiet and enjoy a bed made of rails. took an Emetic at night which operated very severly. I was advised by many of the Officers to go to some house, and remain untill well, and then follow the Regiment. I would not do it, neither will I do so, unless compelled by my illness, remained in camp.
120  11th Morning cloudy. our whole force started on the march at 6 A.M. I took the Ambulance, still feeling miserable. we are marching towards Frederick, passed through Bladensville and Damascus, both small towns. the farms through this section of country are very good and apparently productive, fruit is very plenty. it is very hilly. roads pretty good. encamped for the night at Kemptown. the Rebel Cavalry pickett had been here to day. our Cavalry routed them, and brought in a few as Prisoners. we are now 14 miles from Frederick. rained at night.  12th Morning unpleasant with rain. Marched at daylight. I took at a foot again, feeling much better. crossed the Baltimore and Ohio R. Road at Monrovia, where we were greeted with cheers and Union flags flying. a piece beyond we passed through New Market, quite a large and beautiful place, looks more like a Town than any we have seen for some time. there is considerable weather here, and the country around is beautiful. some magnificent country seats and excellent farms. we were told that Genl. Lee, was here yesterday, but left again for Frederick. many complained that the Rebels had taken everything from them. entered Frederick at dusk, and drove out the Rebel force, under command of Generals Lee, Jackson, Ewell, Hill and others. report says both Lee and Ewell are wounded, and both are being hauled in Ambulances. One of our shells to day fell among some Rebels at a battery, and killed and wounded 20 of their men. our advance has driven them into and through Frederick, and pursued them several miles. Our Division encamped within 2 miles of Frederick. I went to a Union farmers and had a cup of tea and toast, and was fortunate enough to secure a bed, which was the first I had slept in for 10 months.
121  13th Day very pleasant. our advance was fighting all day, principally Artillery. we lost but few men. Rebels lost heavily in Killed, wounded and prisoners. we left our Camp at 5 P.M. marched through Frederick, which always has been a very strong union place. it is quite a large city, very well built and quite a beautiful town. Streets and side walks are all paved. the Ladies cheered us quite heartily as we passed through the Streets. we marched on the Hagerstown turnpike, passed through Glennville and encamped near Middletown, 10 miles from our last encampment.  14th Sunday. this morning I was visited by Lewisburg friends, which was quite a treat. heavy canonading heard at daylight. our advance was fighting all morning. after breakfast we were again on the March. passed through Middletown which is quite a neat little place, and halted for a short time beyond. at 2 P.M. our Division was ordered forward. we went up a lane, the roughest I ever travelled, when the shells came over our heads in great numbers, and many exploded very close to us. we then went into the main road on the extreme left of the Turnpike, where Genl. Sumner's Corps. was engaging the enemy. we were not here long however, when we were ordered forward. here we lay but a short time, when an order came from McClellan, that a Battery in our front must be silenced at all hazzards. Genl. Wilcox ordered our Brigade to do it, and our COlonel Welsh, Acting Brigadier, ordered our own Regt. to advance first. we advanced to the brow of a hill, where all superfluous baggage was thrown off, and the Reg't. went into the cornfield and quietly crawled to near the top of Blue Ridge, then sent out two Companies as skirmishers, A. and B. they were not there long untill they seen the Rebels jumping over the fences, when our boys commenced firing. then our
122  Regiment advanced to support our skirmishers. this brought on a regular engagement. our noble 45th fought with the bravery and skill of Veteran Soldiers, stormed their battery and put the Rebels to flight, where they had thousands against our hundreds. the balance of our Brigade came in as a reserve, and was soon engaged. we fought about 2 1/2 hours. everything in the shape of Ammunition was entirely exhausted. all this time I was busily engaged with my 2 Assistants, caring for the wounded, finding our Hospital too much exposed to the fight. I moved down the hill about 300 yards, where I established my Hospital, and soon I had my hands full, as our brave boys were carried to me by the dozen. before moving from my first position, my life was in great danger. one place that I had been just a few moments before, a shell struck and exploded, throwing the dirt all over me 50 yards off. at another time the grape and canister rolled by me, as if some one was sending them towards me by the shovel full. often while dressing the wounded at the brow of the hill, my men would say Doctor, do sit down and work, you will get killed, while here the minnie balls was humming around me with that hateful hist, they always make, like bees around the hive when disturbed. at dusk our Brigade was relieved by fresh troops, who pursued the enemy, from the ground our men had gained. I worked hard all afternoon and night. Our Regiment suffered severly. we lost 24 killed on the field, and 112 wounded, many mortaly. after night I Amputated Capt. Groves leg. it was a compound comminuted fracture of both bones, from a solid shot. Genl. Reno, commander of our Corps was wounded seriously, close by me, and died soon afterwards. Our wagons have again failed to get up, and we are nearly starved. name of this battle is South Mountain. My beloved and esteemed
123  friend Lieut. G. D. Smith, of Wellsboro, Tioga Co. Pa. was killed. at the time he was acting A. Adjt. Genl. to Col. Welsh, and had just delivered his message to cease firing, when a ball penetrated the left Axilla, and severed the Aorta, and he died without a struggle almost instantly. "Peace to his Ashes." he was a christian and a hero. for 8 long months on the Sandy Islands of South Carolina, we were as brothers, slept together, messed together, and agreed at all times, we just suited each other. happy and pleasant was our associations. when I looked upon his corpus, tears flowed freely from my eyes, and I wept, as if he had been a brother.  15th Morning lovely. I worked hard all night with the wounded, and up to 12 M. when they were all cared for, and I commenced sending them off to the Genl. Hospital in Ambulances. during the Night and forenoon we performed a great many operations of all kinds. my supplies were nearly exhausted. after I had my work about completed, I visited our killed and wounded, and found there had 5 died during the night of their wounds. here lay two Lieutenants, Smith and Cole, and 27 Privates, all in one now, waiting for their Grave to be finished that were being prepared for their final resting place, while around this mournful and sad place, could be seen the friends of the slain, in small groups, engraving as best they could the names of our Comrades on boards, for tombstones. each had a grave and each was marked. after all was buried, there was a fence placed around the whole of them. I turned away, with a sad heart, trusting to meet them again, where war and bloodshed never comes. they died for their Country's honor. Oh! what a monument is theirs. "Peace to their Ashes." After quilting this place, I visited the battle field, where our Noble boys was slain, and where our brave band stormed the battery, and here was truly a horrible sight to behold. the Rebel dead and wounded lay around in piles or heaps. near the stone
124  fences that they had to protect them. they suffered severely, and lost about 4 to our one. Some of their wounds was most frightful ones. we cared for their wounded, and while dressing some of their wounds, they acknowledged their loss as being very heavy, and insisted that the fire from our Regt. (45th P.V.) was from sharp. shooters, and they said it made them retreat. they could not stand such warm work as our boys gave them. I done the same for them as I did for our own wounded. they lost many of their Officers. Genl's. Burnsides and Wilcox, both complimented our Regt. in person, and said we turned the tide of battle in our favor that day, and that the Regiment had covered themselves with honor and glory. After the burying of our dead was finished we again started on the March, went by a few miles, when we halted for several hours, to rest, which was much needed by all of us. we had worked hard and industriously, and for my own part had but little to eat. wagons still behind somewhere. I was nearly exhausted, I left one Assistant back to see to our wounded in Hospital.  16th This morning at 1 A.M. we started again for the scene of Action where we reached at 4 A.M. and was halted on the road leading to Sharpsburg. there was hard fighting all day, principally an Artillery fight, supported by our Infantry in the advance. we repulsed the enemy at several points, took a number of their Guns, and many Prisoners. fight continued all day and untill after night. we were ordered under Arms several times to day and night. re-inforcements are coming in rapidly. Our Ambulances came up to day wrote to Sister Kremer  17th Morning lovely. canonading commenced at an early hour this morning. our Division was ordered to be in readiness to act as a Reserve. it only lasted however untill after dinner, when they were ordered to cross the Bridge over Antietam Creek.
125  they went over under a most galling fire of Grape and canister from the Rebel batteries on the surrounding hills. our Regiment was then sent out as skirmishers, through a corn field towards Sharpsburg. they actually entered this town the first of our troops, and captured 8 Prisoners, one was Capt. Twiggs, Nephew of Genl. Twiggs the Traitor, and brought them back and gave them up as prisoners of war. they could have done more there, but was ordered back by the Commanding General. Burnsides seen them go, and remarked that, that Regiment would be taken prisoners. Genl. Wilcox said no they would not, that it was the 45th P.V. Burnsides then said, if any Regt. can ever get away safely that one can. Our Regt. again fought bravely, and was supposed at one time, to have been cut all to pieces, from the danger that they were in, being under the enemies fire of Grape, Canister and Shell for over three hours, but fortunately and remarkable indeed, we lost but one man killed and 36 wounded. fighting continued untill after night, when both Armies quit, and commenced burying the dead and carrying off the wounded. I was again employed all day with the wounded of other Regiments, and at night with our own. most of our men was dangerously wounded. we again performed quite a number of Amputations. Name of this battle is Antietam Creek, or battle near Sharpsburg. our Regt. remained on the battle field. One of my nurses captured me a fine Horse.  18th Day cloudy with heavy rains. very little fighting done to day. the enemy commenced retreating last night. I finished my wounded by 5 P.M. to day, and sent them nearly all to Hospitals. I again worked all night, with but little to eat. I hope we will now have some rest. it is the hardest work I ever done. I also dressed the wounds of friends and others in the 48th and 51st P.V. at dusk our Regiment was relieved by fresh troops. the re-crossed
126  the Antietam Creek, and cooked rations. I joined the Regiment after dark, where I enjoyed a fine nights rest, on the damp ground. it is said Generals Lee and Jackson commanded the Rebel forces here.  19th Day pleasant and very warm. received marching orders at 8 A.M. we forded Antietam Creek, passed over the battle ground, which still presents a horrible appearance. the Rebel dead are still unburied. also many dead horses are seen lying around. Guns, Cartridges and boxes, etc. are very plenty. we marched through Sharpsburg, which is only a small town, and pretty well destroyed. we then turned towards the Potomac, and went into Camp early in the evening within two miles of the Potomac. the Rebels are still crossing into Virginia. our Artillery are playing into them all day. why Genl. McClellan does not follow up their retreat, I cannot understand. here is the  whole Army lying idle, and anxious to cut off their retreat, but lying idle. wrote to Kremer and Sister  20th Day pleasant. Our Division remained in camp all day. there was no advance of our Army Corps. (9th). Our Artillery are still engaging the retreating enemy all day. Our advance made a reconnoisance on the other side of the Potomac, captured a six gun battery, and brought it over safely. the right wing of our Army are in pursuit of the enemy, and have taken a number of prisoners. Our men made good use of their spare time, by washing their bodies and clothing.  21st Sunday. no movement of troops to day. Divine Service was held throughout our entire Army in this section. rest is much needed by our nearly exhausted troops. and of the many thousands here all is quiet and solemn. many are making use of their time by writing to the loved ones at home. we have had no mail for over two weeks. wrote to Kremer and Sister and Mrs. G. D. S.
127  22nd Day pleasant. as yet no signs of a forward movement now. we have here now in this Army, about 150,000 troops. a number of us enjoyed an excellent dinner to day at the house of Mrs. Myers, Across Antietam Creek.  23rd Very warm and sultry. this morning early we received marching orders. camp was soon broken up, and all hands anxious to leave. we waited long and patiently for the order to start, but it came not. So we remained in camp another day.  24th Morning cloudy. rain through the day. still under marching orders, but again short of provisions. visited the Camp of 51st P.V. found them in excellent spirits, but all are lamenting the loss at the Battle of Antietam, of Lieut. J. G. Beaver, killed, and Adjt. Geo. Shorkley, wounded, of Lewisburg, Pa. received a large mail, which was a treat to us all. we also received a full supply of provisions.  25th Day pleasant and very warm. Camp quiet all forenoon. at 11 A.M. we received orders to be ready to march at 1 P.M. this was again welcome news to all. a number of our sick stragglers came up from their different Camps, and I now have considerable trouble in procuring transportation for them. we did not march, ordered back again to Camp, unpacked and pitched our tents again.  26th Morning cool, with a heavy dew. at 11 A.M. we again received marching orders to be ready to leave at a moments notice. all was confusion for a short time and ready for the move. left Camp at 5 P.M. and marched two miles, where we encamped for the night, within one mile of the Potomac. I have an additional charge, to attend too, Capt. Cooks, 8 Mass. Battery.  27th Very warm and sultry. was very busy all day making out reports, attending to the sick etc. towards evening went bathing in the Potomac. Our Regimental Band, was mustered out of service and honorably discharged. in it is G. W. Walls, and Wilbur Blair of Lewisburg. they were all delighted at going home.
128  28th Sunday. Early this morning we sent our Ambulances, all back to remove our wounded to Frederick, Hospitals. Divine Service was held in front of Genl. Wilcox's Head Quarters. in the Afternoon I visited the 51st P.V. Nothing new in Camp.  29th Very warm and sultry. some of our Companies went out on Pickett, along the Potomac. very little done in Camp to day. A regular wash up of clothing, policing etc. is the order of the day, and an excellent one it is. My Ambulance returned.  30th Day very warm. there was a general inspection to day, throughout the whole Army Corps, of men, equipments etc. horses, wagons etc. with a review afterwards of the whole corps. this was a magnificent sight to see thousands of soldiers under Arms at one time. All quiet near us. canonading was heard at a distance. had a refreshing shower of rain. wrote to [Ell.B.S.S. S.L. and A.C.L.]
129  October, 1862.  1st Warm, but pleasant. was again promoted to day very unexpectedly, to Acting Brigade Surgeon, of 3rd Brig. 1st Division, 9th A.C. I still remain as Surgeon of my Regt. this gives me a position on the General's Staff. my duties are light. I have control of all other Surgeons, and their Assistants, in our Brigade, consolidate reports of the Brigade, and Superintend the Sanitary Condition of the Same etc.  2nd Still warm. am feeling very unwell to day. went to Sharpsburg and procured some new Stretchers and Hospital supplies. while there had the pleasure of meeting my Cousin, Dr Bland, of the 96th P.V. and Dr Kochler. it was an agreeable surprise to us all.  3rd Day warm and sultry. am feeling much better. This forenoon we had a grand review of all our troops. President Lincoln, Genls. McClellan, Burnsides and others, with their Staffs reviewed us. it was a magnificent affair. all passed of pleasantly. the President was in citizens dress. wrote to Bro. and Sister.  4th Day warm, evening cool, with a storm and rain. Our Battery to day shelled some Rebel pickett on the opposite side of the Potomac, nothing else occurred along our lines. all is quiet as far as we can learn. Sent in my first report as Actg. Brig. Surgeon.  5th Sunday. very pleasant. visited the 131st P.V. where I found Capt. Moyer with his Lewisburg Company. I met many friends here and all glad to see me. I then went to the 129th P.V. where I met, Col. Frick, Sr. Col. Armstrong and T.G. Evans, Sutler, all old acquaintances. had a pleasant visit here. returned at night.  6th Day quite cool, with high winds. Camp very quiet all day. in the evening we received Marching orders, to leave at day light. all was pleased at this and anxious to leave this stony Camp. Such is Soldiers life, always ready to leave an old camp for a new one, no matter if it is not so comfortable.
130  7th Morning beautiful. Reville was beaten at 3 A.M. when I arose and found camp all lively. breakfast was cooked and ate. all was soon ready for the March. we left Camp at 5 A.M. we then made for the Mountain pass and shaped our course for Harpers Ferry. while crossing the Mountains we found many obstructions in the road, which gave our pioneers considerable work. we halted and went into Camp at 1 1/2 P.M. on the farm of Jess Moore, within 2 miles of Harpers Ferry.  8th Day very warm. done little to day. received a few of our tents from Washington and some baggage. was visited by Eld. S.W. McDaniels of Mass, once our Townsman. put my tent up after night, and once more have my own Shelter. this is the first since leaving Aquia Creek, Vir. Sept 5th. all, (or nearly so) this time the Heavens has been my covering and the Earth my bed.  9th Very warm and sultry. a few of my Hospital stores arrived from Washington. recd a large Mail. wrote to Kremer and ordered on my Horse. also wrote to Mrs. G. D. Smith a full account of her Husbands death etc.



Entered the United States Army, as Assistant Surgeon, in the Three Months Service, and served out my enlistment and 10 days over.  Entered the Service on the 18th of April and was honorably Mustered out on the 27th July 1861.  July, 1861.  " 10th I recd at Washington City, from Maj. David Taggart P.M. U.S.A. $163.06  August, 14th I recd at Norristown, Pa. from Maj. David Taggart P.M. U.S.A. 246.75  Amt. of pay due me for 3 months and 10 days Service Total $409.81  I re-enlisted for during the war, on the 21st of Oct. 1861, but was ordered to duty on the 12th Oct. in the Capacity again as Asst. Surgeon, in 45th Reg't. Pa. Vol. Was promoted to Surgeon of the same Reg't. August 4th 1862.  1861.  Dec. 4th I recd at Fortress Monroe Vir. 10 days pay, from Maj. T.B. Oakley, P.M. U.S.A. 44.75  1862  March, 2nd I recd at Graham's, S.C. 2 months pay, from Maj. E.E. Paulding, P.M. U.S.A. 261.16  April, 8th I recd at Graham's, S.C. 2 months pay from Maj. E.E. Paulding, P.M. U.S.A. 258.16  June, 19th I recd at Graham's, S.C. 2 months pay from Maj. E.E. Paulding, P.M. U.S.A. 261.16  July, 14th I recd at Elliott Plantation S.C. 2 months pay from Maj. E.E. Paulding, P.M. U.S.A. 261.16  Dec. 3rd. I recd at Camp near Falmouth, Vir. 4 months pay from Maj. Russell Errett, P.M. U.S.A. 601.00




Journal  by  Theo. S. Christs [sic]  Commencing Jan. 1st, 1856.



[list]  Name of Parties that I have Officiated as Groomsman.  William Heilner Minersville Pa. to Miss Sarah A Bogar Lewisburg Pa.  by the Rev. Geo. Bliss.  Ogden R. Vorse Lewisburg Pa. to Miss Elizabeth McClure Delmore Hall Pa.  by the Rev. James Clark.  James H. Young Mifflinburg Pa. to Miss Maggie Devling Lamar Pa.  by the Rev. Poisel.  John Hayes Mifflinburg Pa. to Miss Mary Barber Buffaloe X Roads Pa.  by the Rev. Isaac Grier.  John D. Musser Lewisburg Pa. to Miss Ella M. Bowman Muncy   Pa.  by the Rev.   Hudson.                                                       Mrs. Musser died July 8th 1857  William Jones Lewisburg Pa. to Miss Ada Bell Lewisburg    Pa.  by the Rev. James Clark .  James Hutchison Lewisburg Pa. to Miss Mariah Baldwin Lewisburg        Pa.  by the Rev. B. Hamlin.  John B. Miller Newton Hamilton Pa. to Mrs. Jerusha K. Welsh Lewisburg Pa.  by the Rev. R. A. Fink.  J. M. Sprowl Mendota Illinois.        to Miss Sophia Brady Danville Pa.  by the Rev. J. W. Yeomans.  Ezra Cuyler Carleston S. Carolina, to Mrs. Joanna K McFaddin Lewisburg Pa.  by the Rev. R. A. Fink.  William Dreisbach Lewisburg, Pa. to Miss. Carrie M. Ammons, Lewisburg, Pa.  by the Rev. H. Hedges.  John Angle, M.D., Merersberburg, Pa. to Miss Laura L. Linn Lewisburg, Pa.  by the Rev. H. Harbaugh, D. D.  D. W. Bland, M.D. Pottsville, Pa. to Miss Emily P. Baber, Pottsville, Pa.  by the Rev. W. P. Lewis.
[Pg 1]   Diary for 1856.  January  1 Jno. Neyhart was married to Harriet Shock of Mifflinburg. Sleighing is fine, good use is being made of it.  2 Sleighing good all day, in the evening rain with Snow.  3  Sleighing fine, Snowed hard all day, 13 Couple came, in Sleighs from Washingtonville. They behaved unruly.  4 Business dull, Sleighing excellent, attended a party at Milton at Isaac Brown's pleasant time.  5  Snowed hard all day. River closed at 7. P.M.  6 Day pleasant. Sleighing very good.  7 A party of Married + Single went to Danville in Sleighs Stopped at Jno. Deens. Fourteen Couple in all. Married folks came home Same night, ballance retd next day. ^we had a splendid time  8  Forenoon pleasant, a heavy Snow Storm in afternoon, Single Folks retd from Danville. No Accidents, one upset  9  Very Cold. Ther. Stood this morning at day light 18 below zero.  10 Ther. 7 below zero, at 7 A.M. Sleighing fine, very cold.  11 Moderating very fast, Lewisburg Band held a Concert in Town, poor turn out + poorer Music.  12  Very cold again Snowed hard all day.  13 Sleighing fine, a light Snow. Ephraim Long died.  14 Snowing at times, appearance of rain.  15 Day pleasant, Sleighing fine, buried E. Long.  16 Moderating, day quite warm.  17 Sleighing fine, went to a party Hughesburg at Ed. Lyons, had a gay + pleasant time.  18 Snow melting very fast.  19 Growing Colder, business very dull.  20 Very cold, Sleighing fine.  21 Snowed this morning, day pleasant.  22 Cold + windy, went to Milton, had a fine ride.
[Pg 2]  23  Very Cold. Commenced filling Ice House. Sleighing fine.  24 Cold. D. Oswald was Married to Miss Wood, finished the Ice H.  25 Day pleasant, Sleighing fine, One runaway broke the Sleigh.  26 Dr. Curtis Oswald Child died, 24 of us went to Milton ordered Supper at Huffs, then went to McEwensville, ran against a two Horse Sleigh + broke it, retd to Huffs had a good Supper danced awhile + came home all well pleased with the ride.  27 A.M. Lawshes child died. Snowed all day.  28 Snowed to day. Moderating, appearances of rain.  29 Day mild + pleasant, buried Curtis & Lawshes children.  30 Stormed hard this morning.  31 Sleighing fine, was to Mifflinburg, Large party from S. Grove.  Commenced the Musical Review Jan. 26/56  Amt. of 1st years Business in Drug Store $6746.08  February 1856  1 Day pleasant, Sleighing fine, a party at Spykers, one from Milton at Herrs Hotel.  2 Cold + blustry[sic]. Party to McEwensville of young men to Settle the breaking of Sleigh on 26 Jan. Emilie + Cousin Jane along with Mayland Mauck came from Minersville.  3 Day very cold. Ther. 12 below zero at 7 A.M. Baptized 6 persons in the River at 9 this Morning.  4 Very cold. Ther. at 4 this Morning at 7 A.M.  5 Sleighing very good. Still cold. Ther. 12 below zero.  6 Day pleasant, Large party from Selinsgrove, Ther. 14   [below zero] Emilie + Company left from Minersville.  7  Snowed this morning, appearance of rain.  8 Still Moderating, Snow in the evening. 2nd Child died of Lawshes  9 Very cold. Sleighing fine. Jeremiah Gibson died.  10 Day pleasant, buring J. Gibson, & A.M. Lawshes child.  11 Snow Melting fast. Court Command for the 2nd time in the Methodist Church, full attendance.
[Pg 03]  12 Very Cold + stormy. L. Deitrich was Married to Miss Hummel  13 Cold + windy. Sleighing fine.  14 Pleasant, but awful Cold. Ther 21 below from 5 to 7. A.M.  15 Snow in afternoon.  16 Still Snowing.  17 Very Cold + Stormy. Snow drifting very much.  18 Regular Court week, full attendance. Cold + Stormy.  19 Day pleasant, Court crowded. 3 boys found guilty of misbehaviour.  20 Landlords indicted for Selling liquors. Bill found against them all. A fine Party at Wm. Wilsons.  21 Warm. Snow Melting fast. A Large Party at Mrs. E. McClures, also two Parties at Herrs, One from Danville + one from Selinsgrove, the latter went home drunk. i.e. the Gentleman.  22 Sleighing poor, very warm. Mrs. Leisenring + child died.  23 Snow melting fast. Court adjourned. Jno. McKinty died.  24 Very warm. Buried Mrs. Leisenring + child, also Mrs. Zellers over the River.  25 Cold, appearance of Snow. Jno. McKinty buried.  26 Day pleasant, business very dull. Mud in the Streets.  27 Commenced Snowing at 11. A.M. + Continued until next morning.  28 Day pleasant, attended a party at Muncy, had a fine time.  29  Very warm. Snow melting fast. Sleighing poor.  _____________________  March 1856.  1 Snowing hard all day, with rain.  2 Still snowing, depth of Snow this Morning 12 inches. Cold.  3 Very Cold all day. Sleighing fine.  4 Snow melting cold + stormy at night, was up to W. Wilsons.  5 Snow disappearing very fast, day pleasant.  6 Forenoon pleasant, Snow Storm in Afternoon, night very cold.  7 Day pleasant + cold wind. Snow melting fast.
[Pg 04]  8  Stormy + unpleasant. Joseph Angstadt Jr. died in Milton.  9 Very cold. Ther. 6 below zero. Sleighing poor.  10 Cold + windy Ther. 8 below zero this morning, buried J. Angstadt.  11 Stormy + very Cold, disagreeable day Sent for N. A. +U.S. Gazette  12 Air very cold, day pleasant.  13 Warm + pleasant, a regular Spring day. recd 1st No. of Gazette.  14 Snow melting very fast.  15 Day pleasant, went to Milton, buried Maj. Witter with Masonic Honors. 82 Masons in Procession.  16 Sunday, warm + pleasant with a Cold air.  17 Day quite warm, roads drying off fast.  18 Pleasant. Snowed at Night. Concert in Presbyterian Church.  19 Snow on the ground this morning 4in. In depth.  20 Day pleasant. Commenced Boarding with Mrs. E. Vorse at $3.00 per week. Wm. Jones Esqr. was Married to Miss Ada Bell, at the house of J. Schreyer, had a pleasant time at the wedding Miss Lide Houghton B. Maid + T. L. Christ G. Man.  21 Election day, very warm, went with the Bridal Party to Milton  22 Day very pleasant, roads bad snow melting fast.  23 Day fine 8 persons baptized by the Baptists.  24 Day unpleasant, at times it rained, hailed + snowed. Exhibition in Church  25 Day pleasant. Exhibition in church crowded House.  26 Pleasant. College School closed. C. F. Hess child died.  27 Cold + Stormy, business dull. Movings Commenced.  28 Very cold all day and night. More Snow buried Hesss child.  29 Day pleasant, evening Cold, business good. Thomas Reber returned from Calafornia[sic].  30 Sunday. Day beautiful + warm, appearance of Spring.  31 Day beautiful. Teachers Institute was organized in the Christian Church Vestry, a full attendance.  _____________________
[Pg 05]  April. 1856  April 1. Day beautiful + warm. Town in Confusion, on acct. Of moving day.  2 Morning clear + warm. Afternoon rain. Pigeons plenty.  3 Day pleasant, ice melting Slowly. Surprise party at Kremers.  4 Day pleasant, McKintys child died. Ice Started.  5 Warm + pleasant, roads drying off finely.  6 A regular May day. Warm + comfortable.  7 Beautiful day, Moving the dead to the Cemetery. Party at Joe. Musers.  8 Day warm. Fine to day. Mrs C. Wolfes Smoke house burnt down  9 Warm + pleasant, all hands making garden. A large party at Kremers.  10 Day fine, very windy. River very high + still rising.  11 Warm + comfortable, Institute close to day, went to Mifflinburg.  12 Forenoon warm. Afternoon Stormy. Rained hard at night with thunder ^+ lighting.  13 Very windy, Storm last night done a great deal of damage River still rising very fast.  14 Warm + beautiful day. River still high, on the fall.  15 Rained quite hard. A Sociable came off to night.  16 Day pleasant with Showers. Serenaded last night.  17 Rained all day. River rising very fast.  18 Day pleasant. Wm. Rileys child died, water falling.  19 Showers all day. Business brisk through Town.  20 Rain + Snow, disagreeable day.  21 Cold + unpleasant. Rain all day. River rising.  22 Moderating. Rain in the morning.  23 Day pleasant + warm. Students coming in fast.  24 Forenoon pleasant. Afternoon Showers. A hard Storm at night. ^Commenced School  25 Day warm + pleasant. River full of lumber + drift.  26 Very pleasant, business good.  27 Warm, day lovely.  28 Warm + Sultry, appearance of rain.  29 Pleasant, put up the Awning in front of Stores.  30 Day fine business very dull.  _____________________
[Pg 06]  May. 1856  May.  1 Day unpleasant. Theo. S. Christ went to Philad to buy goods.  2 Rain + unpleasant weather, heard Mlle. Parodi Sing in Phila.  3 Very disagreeable in the city. Went to New York City.  4 Morning pleasant. Cool in evening. 2 persons baptized.  5 Day pleasant, business good. Retd from N. York to Philad  6 To day. Appearance of rain, windy + cold.  7 Cloudy with rain.  8 Raining, very disagreeable.  9 Town very dull. More rain.  10 Windy + Cold. A great many persons Sick in Town.  11 Morning pleasant. Appearance of Summer.  12 Fine day. Business goos. S.Y. Lyndal died at 11. A.M.  13 Cloudy in Morning. Left Philad for Minersville.  14 Day pleasant, Retd home from Phila. In good Spirits.  15 Day fine, recd a few new goods.  16 Rain in forenoon. Afternoon pleasant. Frank went to Phila.  17 Day pleasant + warm busines good.  18 Day very fine + pleasant.  19 Day warm. Court Commenced, full attendance.  20 Day pleasant. Wm. H + J Wesley Chamberlin & Roan McClure retd ^from Calafornia[sic]  21 Cold + disagreeable, fine in Stores much needed, business good.  22 Morning Cold, day pleasant. Recd the bal. of our goods Frank Retd  23 Day pleasant. Very warm. Court well attended.  24 Warm & Sultry. Court adjourned.  25 Day unpleasant. Stormy, a party event to High Town for a ^Trout dinner  26 Cold + Stormy, evening pleasant.  27 Day pleasant, evening rain.  28 Warm + cool wind, with rain. Hugh Miller Sen. died.  29 Day disagreeable, rained hard all day, buried H. Miller.  30 Day cold + unpleasant. Hailed very hard to day.  31 Day warm, alarm of fire was given, but proved to be out of Town. John Rolands Barn, supposed to be sett on fire.  _____________________
[Pg 07]  June. 1856.  1 Sunday, pleasant. 1 Person baptized. Jno. Smith was Married to Hannah Brown in Lutheran Church in the evening.  2 Day Very warm, appearance of rain.  3 Awful Hot. Ther. 96 in the Shade. Wm. Ritter Married Miss McFall.  4 Very warm. Ther. 92 in Shade. Cloudy with rain.  5 Day pleasant + windy.  6 Cool + windy. Rained hard all day.  7 Day pleasant. A meeting was held in College Chapel this evening when Gov. Pollock + Hon. Jno. C Kunkle delivd. able + eloquent Speeches on the Kansas question, also denounced Bully Brooks attack upon Senator Sumner, house Crowded. Speeches well recd.  8 Day warm + pleasant.  9 Day Vfine + comfortable.  10 Day Very warm.  11 Very warm. A party of 11 went Trout fishing up W. Deer Creek, we had a good time.  12 Day pleasant. Wm. Clingan was Married to Miss Dean of W.tonville  13 Day warm, rained hard all night, fishing party retd. Caught between 4 + 500 Trout. I caught 8 Dozen.  14 Day pleasant. A Pic Nic at University Spring, good time.  15 Day quite cool  16 Day warm. Mr. Mook was Married by H. Pardoe Esqr.  17 Pleasant in forenoon, rained hard all night.  18 Day fine with rain, went to Milton  19 Day beautiful, business very dull.  20 Day warm, business good.  21 Very warm + sultry Ther. 91 in shade.  22 Warm, rained hard, went to Mifflinburg.  23 Day pleasant. Whig Convention, Republican meeting in evening.  24 Day warm, appearance of rain.  25 Day fine, rain in morning, went to Muncy, assisted to dedicate their new Masonic Hall, had a pleasant time.
[Pg 08]  26 Day Very warm + Sultry.  27 Day pleasant, business very dull.  28 Day Very Sultry, business good.  29 Warm. Rained hard at night.  30 Day cool + comfortable. F. Marshs child died.  _____________________  July. 1856.  July.  1 Day Very pleasant. Republican meeting in the evening.  2 Day pleasant + cool. Two children buried to day.  3 Very warm, appearance of rain.  4 Cool + pleasant, independence day. A party of 7 couples went to Danville + Spent the day. Danville folks joined in, danced at Boyds farm C. H. McClure was my ^Partner.  5 Day pleasant, business good.  6 Cool. One person Baptised.  7 Pleasant + Comfortable, light rain in afternoon.  8 Rained hard, afternoon and night.  9 Cool, with rain, business good.  10 Pleasant + warm.  11 Comfortable, farmers are Harvesting.  12 Cool, appearance of rain.  13 Very warm, Ralph Dittys child burned to death with ^or by matches.  14 Very hot, buried Dittys child, wrote to Edward.  15 Day pleasant, with rain.  16 Day warm, a party went to Sunburg, had a good time.  17 Very warm. Ther. 96 in Shade. D. S. Bogar Came in from ^the West.  18 Still warm + Sultry Ther. 94 in Shade.  19 Quite Cool. B. Phillips child died of Mania P.  20 Day pleasant, windy, buried B. Phillips, funeral large.  21 Pleasant, cool + cloudy, attended a Party at Geo. A Fricks  22 Day pleasant. Town full of Strangers Visiting.
[Pg 09]  23 Day pleasant. Strangers are coming in fast, was to Mifflinburg.  24 Very warm. Examinations Commenced at University And Seminary. Very interesting at Seminary.  25 Warm + dusty. Ther. 96 in Shade at 4. P.M.  26 Dusty, business good. Ther. 96 in shade.  27 Still very warm, no air Stirring.  28 Warm + dusty. Town Crowded with Strangers. Ladies Festival for the benefit of the Presbyterian Church, held in Ammons Hall, was well attended. Exercises of University in Afternoon + evening, rained all night.  29  Rained all day, business very good. Town lively.  30 Day very pleasant, Commencement day, it was supposed there was more persons her to day than at any time before on the Same occasion.  31 Day very pleasant. Strangers leaving.  _____________________  August. 1856.  Aug;  1 Very warm. Town appears dull, place is quite healthy.  2 Warm, appearance of rain. Signor Blitz in Town.  3 Pleasant, evening cool.  4 Rained all day, quite cold.  5 Day pleasant. Bro. Purinton, Wife, Two Children and Mother, same from Minersville. Jos. I Schaffer retd from Cal.  6 Pleasant, very warm.  7 Warm, but pleasant, was gunning, rained all night.  8 Cloudy + Cool, appearance of rain.  9 Business very good.  10 Pleasant, Bro. Purinton, Family + D. S. Bogar retd to the West.  11 On the 11th. Day pleasant. L. Sterners child died.  12 Day pleasant, business very dull.
[Pg 10]  13 Business very poor, appearance of rain.  14 Day pleasant + cool.  15 Business good. Day pleasant. Camp Meeting in full blast.  16 Day cool, had a fine steady rain.  17 Pleasant and agreeable.  18 Pleasant, business good. Mother left for Minersville  19 Cold. Rained hard all day.  20 Unpleasant. Rain + wind.  21 Very disagreeable day, a drizzling rain.  22 Pleasant. Making Varnish all day. Wm. Richter died at Selinsgrove, with a Congestive chill.  23 Cool + pleasant, rain in evening.  24 Day pleasant, attended the funeral of Wm. Richter at S.grove  25 Pleasant, fet something like having a chill.  26 Warm, not at all well, bad headache + feverish.  27 Pleasant, took a regular course of medicine.  28 Day pleasant. Very windy. Large fires on Mifflinburg Alex. Cummings + Cyrus Eaton property destroyed.  29 Day cool, occasional Showers.  30 Pleasant. Camp Meeting at Centre Church.  31 Sunday. Day Splendid in Forenoon heard D. Millard prreach in Christian Church, he told us many interesting things about Egypt + the Holy Land.  In afternoon went to Camp Meeting, heard the Rev. Knapp preach, a Splendid Sermon, I understood he was on his way to Kansas, Success to him wherever he goes, he is undoubtable a very smart man. Wrote to Bro. Ed. Sept. 1st.
[Pg 11]  September. 1856.  Sept  1 Day pleasant. Rev. Millard Lectured about Jerusalem +c.  2 Pleasant, quite warm.  3 Fine + comfortable, went to Williamsport along with a delegation from here, to hear the Hon. A. Burlingame Make a Republican Speech, he Spoke near 3 hours. None appeared tires, over 2000 persons present; all well pleased.  4 Day very pleasant.  5 Very warm. Republican Club met, full house.  6 Warm + pleasant. Gen. Greens widow dies.  7 Pleasant. Rained hard all night.  8 Warm + Sultry. Mrs. Green was buried, funeral very large.  9 Pleasant, a false alarm of fire was given.  10 Pleasant, wind + rain.  12 Beautiful, went to Selinsgrove in the evening.  13 Day pleasant, business good.  14 Warm, evenings pleasant, Moonlight nights.  15 Pleasant, Court Commenced, full attendance in the evening we put up a Fremont + Dayton Pole, raised it by Moonlight, height 120 feet, length of Streamer 30 feet. Glee Club in attendance.  16 Day pleasant. Buchanan Meeting in Town, quite large 759 persons in Procession, Counting Men + boys. A drunker Sett of men I never Seen in Procession  17 Day beautiful, Fremont + Dayton Meeting in the Grove, bet yesterdays. Locos down in the mouth, about it, it was a Splendid affair, there was 824 Voters in procession, not counting Bands, Ladies or boys. Some 4000 in the Grove. Hon. D. Wilmot, Hon. Phelps of Mass. Hon. Jno. C. Kunkle + other prominent Speakers was present, all pleased. Glee Club in attendance.
[Pg 12]  18 Day beautiful. Afternoon very dusty. Political meeting in ^Milton  19 Pleasant. Court in full Session.  20 Pleasant + warm, went to Mifflinburg to a Fremont Meeting, between 300 + 400 in Procession, all pleased in the at  past 8, the alarm of Fire was given, + thought to be the Bridge, as it illuminated the whole Town, but after going to the River, it proved to be Wm. Nesbit Barn, it was a beautiful Sight, across the River, it was an incendiary.   21 Pleasant + warm.  22 Pleasant Cold wind all day.  23 Cool + unpleasant, Rain in the evening.  24 Cold, with rain  25 Pleasant. Panorama of the Pilgrims Progress, Shown to night.  26 Day pleasant. Whitings Singing Class Commenced.  27 Pleasant. Glee club was to Hublers School House P.mg  28 Quite warm.  29 Day gloomy. Rain at night. Ex Gov. Ford addressed the Gremont Club, with a good solid Speech, all pleased.  30 Day unpleasant. Went to New Berlin to a Large Union Mass Meeting, Ford, Kunkle + others Spoke, Glee Club there.  ___________________________________________________________________  October. 1856.  Oct.  1 Very cold, with hail + Snow.  2  Pleasant, put up the Stove in the Store.  3 Day fine + comfortable. P. Leonards child died.  4 Pleasant. Leonards + Nesbits children was buried.  5 Warm. Mrs. Harmin Yost died. Aged 68 yrs.  6 Pleasant, Fillmore Meeting in Ammons Hall. Not enough of that Stripe in Town to fill the offices for a meeting. Swope Esqr. of Clearfield + another mush head from Phila. addressed  the meeting.
[Pg 13]  7 Day beautiful. Buried Mrs. Yost, funeral large.  8 Day pleasant. Mr. Moller of Maine addressed the Fremont Club.  9 Pleasant, went to the County Fair at Mifflinburg.  10 Weather pleasant, Fair well represented, had a good time.  11 Pleasant, Rivers + Derious Circus Company in Town.  12 Day warm + dusty, went to Milton  13 Stormy + Unpleasant, rain + wind.  14 Day cold. Election day, exciting times.  15 Pleasant. Election returns favorable at times to both ^parties  16 Pleasant, nothing definite as regards Election.  17 Unpleasant, with rain. News slow coming in.  18 Disagreeable, Locos ahead. Party at Dr. T. H. Wilsons.  19 Day pleasant + warm, appearance of Indian Summer.  20 Pleasant + warm.  21 Warm + comfortable. County Fair at Milton  22 Pleasant, Mrs C.H. Shriver died.  23 Cold + windy. Buring Mrs. Shriver.  24 Cold + unpleasant.  25 Rain, Wm. Wilson U.R. died very suddenly. Sick only two days. A fine man is lost from the Community, and is mourned for by many friends.  26 Day pleasant. Afternoon cold.  27 Unpleasant. Buried Wm. Wilson, funeral very large 73 Buggies + Carriages in Procession. Peace to his Ashes.  28 Cold + windy. I went to the Mountain Deer hunting. Snowed in the afternoon in the Narrows.  29 Day very Cold on the Mountain. Shot 2 Deer.  30 Unpleasant, Snowed hard all day. Seen Several Deer, but Shot none, Caught Trout + shot Pheasants.  31 Day rather pleasant. Started hunting early in the morning. Shot one deer, returned to Camp, all hands very tired.  ____________________________
[Pg 14]  November. 1856.  Nov.  1 Day pleasant, Hunting party returned. 8 in the party. Shot 3 Deer, had a Splendid time all pleased + all in good order. Flora C. Kremer was Born.  2 Pleasant, feel a little tired from hunting.  3 Unpleasant. Rained very hard. Large Fremont meeting.  4 Cold + Stormy. Election day had a warm time of it, Fremonts Maj. was 178 in both wards, again of 29 votes over Oct. Elec.  5 Cool + pleasant. Election news favorable to Fremont.  6 Pleasant. Singing School Commenced. News on other Side.  7 Day fine, Buchanan elected. So Supposed.  8 Unpleasant, rained hard in the evening, heavy Storm.  9 Sunday, pleasant but colg. Peters child buried.  10 Pleasant, but cold.  11 Warm + pleasant, very changeable.  12 Pleasant. Cleaning Store.  13 Warm. This morning Chronicle office was on fire, little ^damage done  14 Rain. Last night J. Baker + Co.  Drug Store was broken into.  15 Pleasant + warm.  16 Beautiful. Joshua Budd retd from Calafornia.[sic]  17 Disagreeable, Snowed hard in afternoon, wrote to Ed.  18 Cold + unpleasant, recd our fall stock of goods.  19 Pleasant. Johnson, Frost + their 2 Ladies, gave a Concert it was a Splendid treat in Music, poor house.  20 Day pleasant + warm. Thanksgiving day, had a fine party to Milton + McEwensville. Miss E. B. Hayes was my partner.  21 Day unpleasant, rain in afternoon + evening.  22 Pleasant + warm.  23 Sunday, beautiful + warm.  24 Pleasant + warm. Prof. A. N. Johnson + Co gave their 2nd Concert this evening in University Chapel.
[Pg 15]  25. Day unpleasant rained afternoon + night.  26 Cool + disagreeable.  27 Pleasant + warm. Moderating.  28 Pleasant. National Vocalists in Town.  29 Cold + stormy, hard rain with Snow. Jas. Aiken commenced a Series of readings to night, to a fine + intelligent audience, all well pleased.  _____________________  December, 1856.  Dec.  1 Pleasant. Whitings, Sacred Music Concert came off this evening in Presbyterian Church poor house.  2 Unpleasant, rained hard all day. Whiting gave his Secular Music Concert in Ammons Hall, full house.  3 Cold, very stormy with Snow.  4 Very cold + windy. I attended a fine party at Dr Wm. H. Hayes had a pleasant time.  5 Pleasant, but cold. Large Party at Vorses, good time.  6 Day mild, but very cold.  7 Cold + windy.  8 Pleasant, still cold. Cana; froze over last night.  9 Cold, Sun very warm.  10 PLeasant, went to Williamsport to attend Theo. H. McFaddins wedding, he married Miss Sallie Rathmell, had a good time.  11 Unpleasant, rain + snow, remained in Wms.port I attended a very large party at Thos. Heburns, good + pleasant time, formed a number of acquaintances.  12 Day pleasant, returned home.  13 Warm + comfortable.  14 Snow + rain in the morning, Severe Storm in evening.  15 Dat pleasant, Court Commenced full attendance. I happened to be one of the unfortunate Jury man So when the Bell rang, I made tracks and answered to my mame.
[Pg 16]  16 Day pleasant. Court crowded. I sat as Jury man found it hard work.  17 Day fine. I again sat as Jury man, case was an obstruction in the the highway in Slabtown. Jury went out before Dinner + remained there untill 7 that evening, when we Seen we could not agree on a verdict, we then asked the Judge for something to eat, he granted us the privilege of being marched to the Hotel + back again, under the Superintendance of the Constable.  18 Our Jury had a big time last night, telling Stories +c. every now + then we would ballot, but Still remained divided, + kept so untill morning when we gained two of our opposition, after Court was Called, Judge again had us marched to the Hotel for Breakfast, at  past 12 that day we gained the remaining two, + after court was called we retd our verdict, after being in the Jury Room 26 hours. I was tired. Very cold. Court still in session.  19 Pleasant + very cold. Court still in session.  20 Unpleasant, rain + sleet. Court adjourned.  21 Sunday, pleasant but very cold.  22 Light Snow, still cold.  23 Very cold, went to  Wm. Nagles for Supper good time.  24 Pleasant. Clear + warm  25 Pleasant, Christmas, very dull, nothing going on.  26 Beautiful day. Very large party at Jas Marshs.  27 Pleasant + very warm.  28 Very warm. Mud plenty in the Streets.  29 Pleasant. Dancing School Commenced.  30 Warm. Ice melting very fast.  31 Pleasant, appearance of Snow. End of the 1st year of my Journal. ^Commenced Harpers Magazine this month.  ____________________________
[Pg 17]  January. 1857  Jan.  1 Pleasant, a light Snow. Attended a fine party at J. F. Linns.  2 Beautiful day, appearance of Snow. Wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Comfortable. Snow this morning 4 in. deep. Sleighing fine.  4 Sunday. Very cold. Sleighing good.  5 Pleasant, appearance of more Snow.  6 Very cold. Cleaned out the Ice House.  7 Cold + unpleasant, Commenced filling Ice house.  8 Cold + Sharp, it was So cold, that we could not Saw Ice.  9 I went to Minersville, finished Ice house. Cost $20.- to fill.  10 Snowed nearly all day. Amounts to nothing.  11 Pleasant, but very cold.  12 Pleasant + agreeable.  13 Very cold. Simon Cameron Elected U.S. Senator by 1 Maj.  14 Snowed all day, windy + cold. Locos. Mad at Camerons Election  15 Sleighing still good. I returned from Minersville after a pleasant visit. Sleighing better there than here.  16 Pleasant. Ther. 12 below zero. Awful cold.  17 Cold + blustry. Sleighing fine on the River, rods bare.  18 Stormy all day. Snowing + drifting, very cold.  19 Severe Storm, roads all drifted Shut with Snow, no mails + no cars.  20 Still very cold, more Snow, no mails to day.  21 Cold + more Snow, very stormy. Monday mail - Came two days behind time.  22 Day cold + windy. Coldest day this winter.  23 Very cold, Ther. 10 below zero, the new Law, concerning foreign Silver Coin, was put in operation, fips, Levys + Quarters to pars hereafter, as  dime 1 dime, + twenty cents, it is not observed + will remain as usual, I think.
[Pg 18]  24 Day pleasant. Ther. 19 below zero. Coldest day.  25 Sunday. Sun Shone quite warm.  26 Morning very cold. Ther. 15 below zero. Rain in evening.  27 Pleasant part of the day. Rain + hail. Saml. Slifers child died.  28 Day fine, with Snow, buried Slifers child, a stag party of 8 went to Northd, we went on the River all the way.  29 Quite warm. Snow melting fast.  30 Warm. Snow melting all day. Snow in evening.  31 Day mild. Snowed all forenoon fast + is now 6 inches deep, Sleighing fine. Care makes slow progress, must be without news to night. This day our Second Years business in the Drug Store ends. Success is staring us in the face, with an agreeable Smile. So far all has passed along finely, the only draw back is the scarcity of money, we have not sold as much as we did the first year, but it is satisfactorily explained, by the poor crops +c. this years sales are as follows +c. $6019.74 we trusted less + done a better business.  ____________________________  February. 1857.  Feb.  1 Sunday. Mild + pleasant. Sleighing fine.  2 Pleasant. Sleighing fine.  3 Cold. Ther. 16 below zero, went to Muncy had a good time.  4 Pleasant, appearance of rain.  5 Warm. Snow melting fast. Sleighing gone.  6 Still warm. Snow + ice still melting. Mrs Jacob Yoder Jr Died.  7 Very warm, mud very plenty. Rev. Ira T. Fosters remains was brought to the cemetery for burial, he died  in Phila.  8 Sunday. Still plenty of mud, buried Mrs. Yoder in forenoon. Afternoon rained very hard, buried Rev. Foster, in evening blew up cold, Ice in Rover cracked at 9 P.M. + Started off at 5 in the morning. River raised about four (4) feet, in a short time. Ice stopped again. River bank full.
[pg 19]  Feb. 9 Pleasant. Ice running very fast. River falling.  10 Cold + freezing, a heavy Snow Storm.  11 Very cold. Ice still running.  12 Day pleasant. Attended a Splendid party at Thos. Hayes.  13 Warm. Mud in the Streets.  14 Quite warm, pleasant with doors open.  15 Pleasant, + warm. Dr Jamed Clarke resigned as Pastor of Presbyterian Church. Mary persons cried, as he was very well liked by his Congregation. Jas. Mackey was married to ^Miss Miexell[?].  16 Day warm, with rain. Court Commenced full house. Martin A. Stock died. Dr. Elisha Kent Kane, the Artic [sic] Explorer died this day at Havana, his loss is deeply mourned for, by relatives + many friends + admirers.  17 Pleasant, roads very muddy.  18 Warm + pleasant. Court in full Session, first prisoner was put in the new Jail for misdemeanor, his name is Missour Hunsicker of Hartley Township, sentence 2 months imprisonment.  19 Day unpleasant, rain in evening.  20 Unpleasant, rain, roads very bad.  21 Disagreeable, court adjourned, 2nd Prisoner sent to Jail for an assault + battery, name is Walthins, works at Bever, G. M + Co Furnace, Sentence 3 months imprisonment.  22 Sunday. Mud drying up fast.  23 Day pleasant + warm.  24 Pleasant. I attended a fine party at P. B. Marrs.  25 Warm. Jonathan Yosts house burned down, supposed to be Sett on fire.  26 Pleasant, Strong wind, getting colder.  27 Pleasant, Snowed fast in the evening. I attended a large + pleasant party at Robert H. Lairds.  28 Very disagreeable, Snow on the ground this morning 3 in. deep, all gone by evening. Party of us gave Mrs. Fishbaugh a benefit. Celebrated the evening by wholesome dancing, pleasant time.  ____________________________
[Pg 20]  March. 1857.  1 Sunday, cold a+ unpleasant. Snow in the evening.  2 Day very cold + Stormy. Wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Pleasant + warm.  4 Pleasants. Buchanan Inaugurated President of U.S. he has turned to be a Southern man.  5 Unpleasant. Snowed for Several hours.  6 Cold + Stormy.  7 Unpleasant. P. Winegarden died of Consumption.  8 Sunday. Pleasant + cool.  9 Unpleasant. Snowed quite hard, Buried P. Winegarden with Masonic Honors. 90 Masons in Procession.  10 Day cold. I went to Minersville.  11 Unpleasant, business dull in the coal region.  12 Stormy. Assisted our folks to sell off the furniture they wished to dispose of previous to moving to Lewisburg, furniture Sold well.  13 Pleasant, with Snow.  14 Pleasant, Snow quite deep.  15 Sunday, went to Episcopal Church.  16 Very warm.  17 St. Patricks day. Irish turned out in Minersville, had a large Procession.  18 Pleasant. Mother came home with me, arrived in time to attend a large at pleasant party at D. Lockes.  19 Very cold. Music Convention commenced under the charge of Prof. A. N. Johnson of Boston, assisted by Misses Whitehouse + Briggs. Snow + rain all day.  20 Pleasant. Election for Borough officers exciting times, elected all Republicans, large Majorities.  21 Unpleasant. Thomas Boone died of Consumption
[Pg 21]  22 Sunday, quite warm. 7 persons baptized in the River.  23 Pleasant. Senior Academics declaimed in Baptist Church  24 Pleasant + warm.  25 Unpleasant. Concert by Music Convention. Settled with Thornton  26 PLeasant. P. Winegardens Child died.  27 Pleasant, Buried Winegardens Child. Last Concert of Music Convention, full house, done very well.  28 Pleasant. Prof. Johnson + Co left Town.  29 Warm + pleasant. Dr. Jas. Clarke preached his last Sermon  30 Pleasant + very warm. River up. Lumber coming down in great quantities, Jos. L. Hawns child died.  31 Pleasant. Quite a number of persons moving. Randolphs School Closed, Exercised very good, 8 of us, Ladies + Gents, Sang for him. To day we left Miles C. Pardoe go clear of clerking, health is very poor, he is + was a good boy, he has my best wishes for success in the World.  _____________________  April 1857.  1 Unpleasant. Town upside down, a great many are moving. Wm. A Bennett Commenced clerking for us.  2 Very cold + windy, wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Day very pleasant.  4 Pleasant, appearance of rain.  5 Sunday, a drizzling rain.  6 Cold blustry day, rain in morning, afternoon Snow 3 in. deep.  7 Pleasant. Over head, Snow all gone, night cold.  8 Very pleasant. River rising fast.  9 Pleasant. Jno. M. Hess was married to Sallie Cornelius.  10 Pleasant, attended the Infair[?] of J. M. Hess at Charleys  11 Day fine, appearance of rain.  12 Sunday. Pleasant, evening cold.
[Pg 22]  13 Pleasant. Buried F. Spykers child. Rain in afternoon.  14 Unpleasant. Cold + windy.  15 Cold + windy, the most Severe Snow Storm we have had for many years, to day.  16 Cold. Wind + Snow. Buried Alfred Levan of Muncy.  17 Day very cold + unpleasant.  18 Cold + disagreeable.  19 Sunday. Snowed very hard in the evening. Andrews child ^died.  20 Unpleasant, Snowed all day very fast, with rain, more Snow fell to day, than on any one day all last winter  21 Unpleasant, with rain, no mail from Phild since Saturday. Snow 4 feet deep on Cat. Rail Road Cars Stopped entirely.  22 Mild + pleasant. Mailed arrived to night from Phila.  23 Pleasant, quite warm. School commenced.  24 Very pleasant. Geo. Andrews 2nd child died with Scarlatina  25 Day fine, Sun warm. Buried young McCollum.  26 Sunday. Pleasant. Buried Andrews child, was to Hightown.  27 Stormy + unpleasant.  28 Pleasant + warm.  29 Warm, business very good.  30 Day very pleasant + warm.  _____________________  May. 1857.  1 Pleasant, very windy. I went to Philad to buy goods.  2 Unpleasant, rained very hard.  3 Unpleasant, still raining. River rising very fast.  4 More pleasant. Water very high, running over the banks.  5 Cloudy. River falling. Dr J. F. Harvey was married to Miss ^Samey.  6 Pleasant, trees blossoming, grass growing finely.  7 Day very pleasant.
[Pg 23]  8 Very warm, put up the awning in front of Store.  9 Day pleasant + very warm.  10 Sunday. Sold + windy.  11  Moderating. Court Commenced.  12 Pleasant, returned from the City. Brought sister Emilie along from Fisherville, Baker family in Town.  13 Pleasant + warm.  14 Unpleasant, rained hard all day.  15 Still raining.  16 Day pleasant.  17 Sunday. Pleasant + very warm.  18 Day pleasant, received our goods. 2nd week of Court.  19 Unpleasant, rained all day.  20 Very disagreeable. Cold with rain. Wilson Musser retd from ^Calafornia.[sic]  21 Day more pleasant. Court very dull.  22 Very pleasant + warm.  23 Comfortable day. Court adjourned.  24 Sunday. Pleasant, went to Mifflinburg  25 Very warm.  26 Warm + pleasant. Buried old Mrs. Frain.  27 Cool, rained hard. New [?] made its 1st appearance.  28 Still cool, with rain.  29 Pleasant. Party at Lewis Palmers, good time.  30 Day comfortable.  31 Sunday, very warm with Showers + Lightning.  _____________________
[Pg 24]  June. 1857.  1 Day warm, with rain, County Convention held by Republican Party, nomination made.  2 Very warm + Sultry.  3 Pleasant, with rain.  4 Day very fine.  5 Pleasant, business good.  6 Very pleasant day, appearance of rain.  7 Sunday. Pleasant + warm.  8 Day unpleasant, with rain.  9 Unpleasant. Rain + very Stormy.  10 Morning fine, rain in Afternoon, Mother + myself went to Liverpool.  11 Rained all day. River very high. Stormed at night Cold enough for fire in Stove in Store, Retd from Livel  12 Foremoon warm, rain in evening. River bank full.  13 Pleasant, with rain. Cleared off at night.  14 Sunday. Day beautiful + warm. New Presbyterian Church was dedicated. Sermon in forenoon by Rev. N. Murray D.D. (Kirwan) of N. Jersey, was a splendid production, at 3. P.M. by Rev. A. Nevin D.D. of Lancaster, also a well delivered Sermon. Sermon at 7 P.M. by Rev. S. Shedden of N. Jersey, also a Splendid affair, all passed off well, house crowded each time. Singing highly complimented. Collection amounted in all $1920.-  15 Pleasant. The alarm of fire was given no damage done.  16 Pleasant in forenoon. Afternoon Rain. Mr Miller of Winona M.Y. was married to miss Eliza N. Laird, wrote to Ed.  17 Unpleasant, J. Wentzel Jr was married to Miss Mag. Reed.  18 Unpleasant; with rain.  19 Day very pleasant.
[Pg 25]  20 Day pleasant, rain at night.  21 Pleasant + warm. Buried L. Iddings child.  22 Unpleasant, hard rain with hail.  23 Very cold, with Showers.  24 Day mild + pleasant.  25 Very warm.  26 Warm + business very dull.  27 Very warm. Ther. 86 in the Shade.  28 Sunday. Pleasant + warm.  29 Unpleasant, rained very hard all day.  30 Morning, pleasant. 9 of us went Trout Fishing to White Deer Creek, never reached the fishing ground, encamped for the night at Becks. saw Mill.  ________________________  July. 1857.  1 Day very unpleasant, found the Creek too high.  2 Unpleasant with rain, Retd from fishing. Could do nothing. Mrs Sallie Kingan died, aged 90 years.  3 Very pleasant, buried Mrs. Kingan. Large + pleasant Party at Em. Jones had a good time.  4 Very pleasant. Mechanics Celebration well attended, a fine address was Delivered by the Hon. W. D. Kelly of Phila. Thousands was present, a fine dance at night.  5 Sunday, warm. Rev E. Kincaid preached a missionary Sermon.  6 Day unpleasant with rain.  7 Very pleasant.  8 Very warm. Farmers busy making Hay Mrs. John D. Musser died, after a long illness of a month.  9 Day very warm. Buried Mrs John D. Musser, funeral very large ^A perfect Lady was Ella Bowman Musser it was a more than ordinary Solemn Scene for me, + one that I hope I will never be called upon again to officiate in the same way, just 21 months ago I was one of the Groomsman for the Deceased, + a happy + pleasant time we all had, at the wedding + parties that was made for her, + now at this time. I am one of the waiters to lay her in the cold earth. Peace to her ^ashes.
[Pg 26]  10 Day very warm, farmers all busy making Hay.  11 Pleasant + warm.  12 Sunday, warm + sultry.  13 Hot. Ther. at 90 in Shade, farmers very busy.  14 Hot. Ther. 90 in Shade.  15 Very warm. Cool wind. Hoffman died, wrote to Ed.  16 Day cool, a light rain. Buried C. E. Hoffman at Bloomsburg.  17 Warm + pleasant.  18 Pleasant, a light rain, old Wm. Wallis died aged 77 years. John Hayes of Cal. died at Spring Mills.  19 Sunday. Pleasant. Buried Wallis. Storm at night.  20 Pleasant, at night a heavy rain + storm.  21 Day cool, hard rain.  22 Very pleasant, went to Milton.  23 Pleasant, rain at night, Town Crowded with Strangers.  24 Beautiful day. Exercises at Seminary very interesting.  25 Very pleasant. Exercises closed at Seminary.  26 Sunday, very hot. Rev. Geo. W. Anderson, addressed the Society of Inquiry, very lengthy + good.  27 Day very hot, commencement of Female University, 5 young Ladies graduated + recd their Diplomas.  28 Day pleasant. Town crowded. Literary Societies at the Hill addressed by Gov. Jas. Pollock. Poem by Rev Chas. H. Malcom, both very good.  29 Beautiful + pleasant. Commencement day. 8 Young grad: + recd Diplomas. Exercised in the Grove, Town filled with Strangers, all passed off pleasantly. At night we had a dance at Mrs. Fishbaughs, danced untill 12 o. Clock. 80 young persons present, good time.  30 Day unpleasant, rained all day + night.  31 Cloudy, rained + hailed at night very hard.  ________________________
[Pg 27]  August. 1857.  1 Day very warm + pleasant. Town dull.  2 Sunday, pleasant + cool.  3 Pleasant, very dull.  4 Very warm. H. W. Fried failed Liabilities supposed to be $8000. To day I started for the West, in company with Mother, + Sister Emilie, took the cars for Northd ^at 7 A.M. + then the Packet to Port Iverton, then the cars again for Harrisburg, arrived there at 1. A. at 5. P.M. took the train for Pittsburg, up the Central R.R. arrived at Pittsburg at 1. M. stopped at the Monongahela House $2.00 a day, it is a well furnished House.  5 John Houghton failed to day, Supposed liabilities $15000- To day I took a run around Pittsburg, it is a very busy city but awfull[sic] dirty, look where you will you can see smoke + dirt, it is beautifully Situated along the Monongahela River, (i.e. the Monongahela House) and is well Kept, clerks very obliging, you can sett on the veranda, + see Steamboats loading for St. Lous[sic], Cincinnatti, Wheeling +c +c. Left after dinner took the Omnibus for Alleghany City and left there in the Fort Wayne Cars for Chicago at 2.20 P.M. arrived there, next day at 1. M. Passed through Several fine places in Ohio, viz. Wooster, Massillon, (here I first seen a Machine Invented + built by, Pitts, that threshes + bags grain as fast as it can be threshed, he was not able to fill more than one fourth of his orders) we then came to Canton, which is a very fine place, we next came to Indiana, passed through Fort Wayne, which is quite a fine place, there is any quantity of Corn + oats fields in this State, wheat looks very poor + in Ohio, here in Indiana I seen the first Prarie[sic] that I ever Seen, + a beautiful Sight it is too, as far as your eyes will carry sight, you see a level piece of land and here + there a small house, travelled all night. [margin: To Harrisburg 62 miles to Pittsburg 256 ms to Chicago 466 miles.]  6 Business dull, excitement runs high at home as  regards to failures
[Pg 28]  7. Day pleasant, a Pic Nic. out at Howards. To day we came in sight of Lake Michigan, which is a beautiful sheet of water, next in view is Laporte, here a man resides that had one corn field last year of 3000 Acres, we next reached Chicago Illinois, from the depot we took an Omnibus for the Tremont House, which we found a large + commodious house, I took a Shave + washed, then dressed + took the folks to dinner. I was disappointed, plenty of every thing to eat, but not in my taste, nothing to compare to the Houses of the same class in New York City, after dinner I called to see J. H. Vincent, I found him at his office, well + hearty, also his family, he was very glad to see me + asked me to dine with him next day. I declined, I retd in good time for tea, which is at 6. + Supper from 7 to 12. Midnight, after Tea Em. + myself (Mother would not go, she felt too tired) took a walk up + down Lake St. which by the way is their (Chesnut [?] Broadway) + done some Shopping, the Streets was very much crowded, any quantity of Ladies Promenading, + out of the whole crowd I seen but one beauty, + I seen hundreds of them. This city is the greatest in the US. for Rail Roads +c. + is a very dusty + dirty place, the Streets are all raised above the pavements about 3 feet, which makes it very unpleasant walking, there is a great many foreigners here, vegetables are very high here, + not as good as in Pa.  8 Town very dull. Buried P. Helds child died. This morning at 10. A.M. we left Chicago for Freeport Distance 121 miles, the country between is beautiful, all along you see fine Praries[sic], + any quantity of wheat Stacks, besides you pass through Some very pleasant town, elgin, Rockford +c, we went on the Chicago + Galena Union R.R. arrived at Freeport at 4 P.M. founds the folks all well + some at the Depot to receive us, with their carriage [Margin: Chicago to Freeport 121 ms.]
[Pg 29]  Aug.9. Very warm. Camp Meeting above N. Columbia. Buried Helds child. Yesterday at Freeport I witnessed a grand Reaper trial. Seymour Morgan + Co took the premium. Saturday was to a horse race. 2 on the track, they ran 1 mile in 1 min. + 45 sec.  9 Sunday, went to church, heard good preaching + singing the house is a very poor one, first church built in Freeport.  10 Rained all day/ Commenced repairing the Locks opposite Town. To day I went hunting along with D. S. Bogar shot 10 Prairie Chickens, am troubled with diarrhea, ever since I left home.  11 Pleasant. Wm. Rockafellow married Em. Jones. Wrote to home to Frank + Kremer. Spent forenoon with Dr rob. Ban balzah + Wesley Chamberlin. Dr has M- P-. Met Several fine young Ladies + Gents.  12 Very warm. Geo. Frains child died.  13 Still warm. Ther. 90 in shade, buried Frains child.  14 Very hot. Ther 90 in Shade, a rumored Lecture on Spiritualism by Lucy Stone, it was a grand sell. To day it rained + blew harder than I ever knew it to before, that is one objection I have to the west, wrote to Gust. Schreyer. Stayed all night with Wesley C. made some calls in evening with Em.  15 Very warm, with rain in the evening.   West, Cold + unpleasant, with rain in Freeport. City crowded with business.  16 Sunday buried Brown of Milton.   West, rained hard all day, dined with Byerleys, blew very hard at night.  17 L. A light rain,  warm. Kline Sold his Hotel for $11000- West Pleasant, wrote to Frank, to day at 4 P.M. Wesley C. + myself started for Minnesota, we took the cars at Freeport for Dunleith, distance 71 miles, we passed through the following placed, all small, but very nicely situated.
[Pg 30]  17 Elroy, Lena, Nora, Warren +c. the latter is a fine + promising place, for about 15 miles the country is beautiful, the remainder is very rough, we are now nearing Galena, which is a very busy place + noted for its unbounded supply or Lead Ore + mines, around the place it is very hilly. Galena is Situated on the Fever River, about the width of our Buffaloe Creek, but is navigable for very large Steamboats, a great part of the city is built upon the hills which looks very odd, house are nearly all built of Brick 4 + 5 stories high. Churches plenty + look fine. Took lodging on board Boat War Eagle, Capt A. S. Kingman Spent the evening at the Argyle House in Dunleith, opposite Dubuque Iowa, at 12 M. we returned to the Boat + went to bed, was not there long untill[sic] I found other occupants there, olter claim to it than I had, bed bugs + Mosquitoes plenty. Spent a restless night.  18 L. Town dull, more rain.  West. This morning I arose early + was glad it was daylight once more, took breakfast + then went on promenade deck, + we soon had the pleasure of seeing the beautiful bluffs +c along the father of waters, thi is a pleasant way for me to travel, we are now nearly out of wood + must go to shore for a new stock, it is a novel + laughable sight to see 20 to 25 Deck hands take in wood, they go it on the run all the time, we stuck fast for about one hour, there Some big Swearing done by the mate, we are now at Clayton, which is a very busy place, house all built of Brick + Stone, we next come to Macgegors landing which is situated between two Bluffs + is a very busy + thriving place, 4 miles distant is Prairie Du Chien, the old French trading post, + also where Uncle Sam at an early day had a depot for Soldiers, the Barracks is still Standing.
[Pg 30[sic]]  18  and the place is improving rapidly now, it is the Terminus of the Milwaukie + Mississippi River R. Road, the town is a mile I think from the depot, it is now 8 P.M. we went to the Cabin + had a nice game of Euchre, while we are playing, the waiters are making good music for us, which is quite a treat, here I seen + heard real River life, unadulterated or mixed on a Mississippi Steamboat, cursing, drinking, card playing, negro music, negro Singing +c +c I grew tired + sleepy + went to my State room to sleep.  19 L. Day pleasant + dull.  West. this morning when I awoke I found we was lying still, I went out + found it was too foggy to run, fog thick enough to be cut with a Knife, lay by several hours, at 8. A.M. we again started, the morning is clear + very cool, feel a little chilly, took a drink, yesterday + this morning I seen some extensive rafts of logs, they came floating along as if they was a solid mass of of timber. Containing acres of Logs, we are now at what is called the Slough, where the River is 5 miles wide from Bluff to Bluff, the scenery is the finest I ever witnessed, I am not able to describe it, there is nothing finer to my eye than the bluffs along the Mississippi, we next came to La Crosse, which is a large place + a great amount of business is done here, here I noticed a very nice birch bark canoe made by the Indians lying on the Beach, two of the Simon pure got on board of our Boat, just from the Mountains, armed to the teeth, they where Winnebagoes going to St Pauls + would come back they said in 4 moons, they was painted most hideously, there was Several Norwegians stopped here to settle in the country, they spoke german. I could not understand one word they said. [Margin: Dunleith to Winona 204 ms]
[Pg 31]  19 We arrived safely at Winona at 4. P.M. M. G. Norton + Wm. Laird mett[sic] us at the landing + gave us a most hearty welcome + forced us to make our home at Jas. Nortons after tea had a good old fashioned talk + went to bed.  20 L. Morning cold, business dull.  West. This morning called to see the folks + found all well. Distance to this point from Dunleith 204 miles. Took a walk around the city, it is beautifully situated on the banks of the Miss. + on a Prairie 9 miles long by & wide, back of the place is a lake, called Lake Winona. Laird, Norton + Co. have built an excellent Mill, (Steam Saw Mill) here + will soon be ready to run, the Huff House is the principal Hotel here, it is a very large + commodious House. City is laid out at right Angles, it is now raining very hard, rain they say never makes mud here, the ground is gravel + Sand. City is bounded on the North by the Bluffs, South by Lake Winona + bluffs + East + West by the River, at this point the River runs directly East + West, took dinner with Mrs Smith, called to Jno. C. Laird found him sick, partook of water + musk mellon, the first I tasted this season, vegetables grow larger + faster here than they do in the East, took Tea with Mrs. Smith + there was no less than 20 Persons there of my acquaintance from Penna. we had a good old time.  21st L Very cool. Jno. H. Beales child died to day McKim was hung for Killing Norcross.  West. Morning beautiful + warm, we took dinner with P. N. Laird. I like Winona for farming or business, it makes no difference if you sow fall or winter wheat you can raise from 30 to 40 Bus. per acre. Corn comes to perfection in 60 days, frost never injures the grain in the ground, water in creeks or Rivers
[Pg 32]  21 never gets muddy, fish are very plenty, in the evening took tea with Jno. C. Laird, last year he raised from 1 citron seed 800# preserving citron + about 40 imperfect one, the covered about 50 feet square.  22 L. Day pleasant. Christian Sunday School had a celebration.  West. Morning pleasant, took dinner with Wm. H. Laird took Tea with Mr Miller, after tea we called on all the friends + bid all good bye. I felt very sorry to leave them, their kindness towards me shall ever be remembered, we took a bed at the Huff House + waited untill 4 in the morning for the Boat, when we started for home, aboard the Northern Light, Capt. Pres. Lodwick a much Superior Boat to the War Eagle, went to bed + slept awhile got up late next morning.  23 L. Sunday, windy + cool.  West. This is a beautiful day on the Miss. my thoughts for awhile was on home + church, at this time 9 A.M. here, the folks at home are going to church 10. A.M. at the time is just one hour faster than her at Lewisburg. No signs of preaching here, all is quiet. Wes. + myself is enjoying a dime cigar a price + big arm chairs, on the promenade deck + looking at the beautiful bluffs. I will never forget the variety of Scenery one sees in a trip up + down the Miss. O wrote to Albert to day, went below + had a talk with the Engineer, he says it cost $300- a day to run this Boat, have 70 hands + bosses. Pilot gets $300- a month. Captain gets $200- a month. Engineer $200- a month + so on, highest point of speed down stream is 10 mils per hour, to day we had a big dinner, viz. 1st soup, maccaroni. 2nd Fish, Bass. 3rd Roasts, Pig, Veal, Lamb, Buf, chickens, Sausage, Ham +c 4th Puddings 5th Jellies, 3 kinds. 6th Floating Island 7+8th Almonds, Raisins +c arrived at Dunleith at 10 at night, put up with our friend Pearer at the Argyle House. [Margin: Winona to Dunleith 204 ms.]
[Pg 33]  24 L. Windy + cold, business very dull.  West. Wesley left me this morning for Freeport. I started for Dubuque Iowa, put up at the Julien House, the best at present, there is a company of men from Buffaloe N. Y. building a very large Hotel here, to be called the St. Cloud 5 Stories high, 15 windows in front, + is a tremendous House Dubuque has about 1700 inhabitants, is beautifully situated on the Miss, the bluffs back of the city are all built upon, very nice Cottage House, visited the Odd Fellows Hall + Theatre, the first ever built here, + will be opened on next Monday night, Miss Eliza Logan is the Star on the occasion, left Dubuque + came to Dunleith + took the cars at 6 P.M. + arrived at Freeport, at 9 P.M.  25 L. Pleasant. Town very dull + warm.  West. Found all well + glad to see me back. Wesley went East.  26 L. Very dull. Pleasant weather.  West. In the evening went to hear Joel Tiffany Lecture on Spiritualism, he had a medium along with him from Rockford, a Miss Hulett.  27  L. Raining all day. Presbyterian Sunday School had a Celebration in the church.  West. Turners turned out, had a celebration any quantity of celebration Lager Beer devoured. I went hunting along with 4 other, shot 11 Prairie chickens, good time.  28 L. Rained quite hard today.  West. Took tea with my old boarding mistress, she used to live in Llewellyn Pa.  29 L. Business very poor, nothing going on in Town.  West. Pleasant + war,, went to a Horse Race Joe. Barber Horse was beaten, heard Miss Hulett Lecture on Spiritualism in the evening. Consider the Subject a Humbug.
[Pg 34]  Aug. 30 L. Sunday. Pleasant Camp Meeting over at Mooresburg. A blind man preached in 3 churches this evening.  West. Heard Mr. Carey preach, a good Sermon, in the evening heard Dr Sunderland of Washington City D.C. he is a very able man + preached a Splendid Sermon.  31 L. Day pleasant. Danville Brass Band went through Town to attend an Encampment at Mifflinburg.  West. A fire her last night, a small house burned down, wrote to Ed. McClure, took a ride with Sheriff Shaffer.  ________________________  September. 1857  1 L. Pleasant. Indian Show at Independent Hall.  West. This morning pleasant, visited the Poor House in company with Dr Robt. Van Valzah. This night I attended the dedication of the new Hotel, (Brewster House) there was 700 persons took Supper, all the youth + beauty of Freeport + surrounding places wa present, I danced untill 5 in the morning + enjoyed myself very much, Champaign +c suffered considerable.  2 L. Day warm, a second show to night.  West. Slept this morning untill 11 A.M.  3 L. Town dull, a great many went to Mifflinburg.  West. Started in company this morning with D.S. Bogar and called to see J. K. Housel. O.P. Duncan + D. Nesbit found them all comfortably Situated + glad to see me, they all used us very well.  4 L. Business dull, nothing doing.  West. Rain + plenty of mean mud here, wrote to Papa, grain coming to market, worth 55 + 60 cts per. Bushel.  5 L. Day very pleasant. Town very dull.  West. Raining this morning very hard, afternoon pleasant, business very brisk to day, streets crowded with wagons.
[Pg 35]  6 L. Sunday very windy + cool.  West. Heard Mr Carey preach, another good sermon.  7 L. Pleasant, a light frost this morning.  West. Day pleasant. Court commenced here O.P. Duncan applied for a Divorce it was given to him, to day I called to see all my friends + acquaintances + bid them good bye, at 9  at night. I started for Polo. reached there at 10  at night, found Ed. McClure Austin Curtin waiting for me at the Depot, they was both well, retired early [Margin: Freeport to Polo 49 ms to Chicago 120 ms.]  8 L. Very dull, had another frost this morning.  West. Ed. Aust + myself took a Stroll about Polo. it is a very pretty place, Situated along the J. C. R. R. + is a great grain market. Country around is very level. Population about 1200. Ed + myself took a ride through the country. I was very much pleased with it, here I Seem Some regular Mexican Mustang Ponies, left at 11 at night, passed through Dixon, Mendota, Ottaway +c arrived at Chicago at 5 in the morning, stopped this time at the Richmond House, which is 6 stories high + much better than the Fremont House.  9 L. Day very warm, business tolerable.  West. After resting awhile I found, Bro. Purinton was here, we went all through the City, found the finest buildings along the Lakes. They are building a Bakery here, that the oven alone costs $40000- + capable of baking 500 Barrels of flour a day into bread. Left here at 8 in the night, in Company with Mrs. W.H. Laird, Miss Kate Kling + Augustus Housed, the Ladies I had in my care.  9 L. Very dull + warm.  West. After leaving Chicago, we passed through the following places of note, Michigan City, Kalamazoo, Marshall, Ann Arbor City, Ypsilanti +c. the Crops looks very poor, oats not yet harvested, wood land is very good, this part of Michigan is very poor looking, as regards agriculture, dont like it.
[Pg 36]  10 L. Day warm. Court Commenced. Commenced repairing the dam.  West. We are now nearing Detroit, at breakfast time, this is a splendid looking city, + a great business place, it is situated on the banks of the Detroit River, we cross the River in a Steam Boat to the Canada Side, for the first time in my life I bid good bye to Uncle Sams dominion for a while + take up a short residence under Petticoat Government, Queen Victoria is boss, it is a God forsaken country as far as London, which is 110 miles from Detroit, this is a very large place. I am now travelling on the G.W. Railway, which runs for a long ways along Lake Erie, it is a splendid read, the best I ever seen + ^they run very fast on this road, many places a mile a minute, is owned by English Capitalists, we are now nearing Hamilton, which is a large place + beautifully situated on Burlington Bay, the head of Lake Ontario, here we crossed the Bridge where last Spring the accident happened that killed some 42 persons, it is again rebuilt very substantially, we are now nearing that much talked of place Niagara Falls, we stopped at the International House, it is now dark. [Margin: Chicago to Elmira 668 miles]  11 L. Warm Arg. Court Commenced. Commenced repairing dam.  West. This morning I hired a carriage in company with Guest House, crossed suspension Bridge, which is all wire, went to Lundy Lone, Table Rack, Burning Spring on Canada Side, + then returned to the American side, went to the Ferry got on Board the Maid of the Mist, & took a trip up under the falls, it was a fearful looking place, upon deck of the Boat, with Oil cloth clothes on, to keep you dry as the spray falls as heavy, as if it was raining all the time, it is a splendid affair, but I never want to go again, once is enough, to experiment, no tongue can ever describe all that is to be seen at Niagara Falls, the water boiling up, just as if Hell was all on fire + trying to
[Pg 37]  Raise steam enough, to shove the whole world some place else, here at this Ferry you can go down a railway if you like or go down the steps to the Boat, there is 290 steps and very steep, it costs a great deal on either the American or Canada Sides to travel here. I never had such queer thought as when I was under the Falls in the Boat. I shall never forget this trip. Nature has done a great deal of work here to please her children. I went to all the public places + was tired by 3. O. clock. So we all got ready + started for home at 4.20 P.M. took the Can. + Elmira cars, fully satisfied with the curiosities of Niagara, passed through the following places, Batavia, Le Roy, Canandaigua, Elmira + Williamsport, where we arrived safely at 11 P.M. Stopped there all night, to get a good sleep. [Margin: Elmina to Lewisburg 109 miles]  12 L. Day very warm. Town very dull.  West. Left Wms.port at 11 A.M. + reached old Lewisburg at 1 P.M. after an absence of 6 weeks, the people appeared glad to see me + I was sorry that the sights was all over made a great many pleasant acquaintances, + had a grand time while I was gone, I travelled some 25 hundred mile + cost me ---- Dollars. This afternoon I again went to work, it went hard for the first few days. I found all well + hearty.  13 Sunday, very warm, went to church, felt at home in the chair.  14 Regular court commenced.  15 Pleasant, G. A. Grow addressed the Republicans in the ^Grove.  16 Day pleasant business dull.  17 Cool, rained quite hard.  18 Pleasant, business better.  19 Cold + unpleasant, rained all day.  20 Sunday. Pleasant, rain in the evening.
[Pg 38]  21 Day pleasant, To day J. M. Sproul of Mendota Illinois was married to Miss Sophia Brady of Danville. Miss Sallie Sloan of Bloomsburg + myself was their waiters, had a pleasant time  22 Day cool. Prof. Helds Cornet Band met to practice for the first time, success to them.  23 Day quite cool, hard times is coming.  24 Pleasant, a great many of our very best men are failing all through the country + especially in the cities.  25 Warm + pleasant, Pennsylvania + Girard Banks in Phila. have suspended specie payment.  26 Very warm. All Banks in Phila. Suspended Specie payment to day, now look out for small fish.  27 Sunday. Pleasant. I had a Billious attack to day.  28 Pleasant. Gov. James Pollock issued his Proclamation for a Special Session of the Legislature, to meet in 8 days to Legalize the Suspension of the Banks, right + proper.  29 Day Pleasant. Levi Sterners child died.  30 Cool, with rain. This month has never had its equal, as regards. Failures + Suspensions in Banks, throughout the State, also of Individuals, it will be long remembered by the Generation, hardly a Specie paying Bank in the State.    ____________________________  October. 1857.  1 Unpleasant, with rain. Jas. C. McClure was married to Glorvina Elder in Phila.  2 Day unpleasant, very disagreeable, wrote to Ed.  3 Day more pleasant, money very scarce.  4 Sunday, very warm + pleasant.  5 Pleasant, business very dull.  6 Day pleasant, Extra Session of Legislature met to day.  7 Pleasant, quite warm. Town dull.  8 Very pleasant. County Fair commenced to day, everything is well represented.
[Pg 39]  9 Day very pleasant. Last day of County Fair, it is being very well attended, all passed off. Pleasantly String Band Organized.  10 Pleasant + warm.  11 Sunday. Very pleasant. Mrs. Samuel Roush died.  12 Day pleasant, business very dull.  13 Pleasant. Election day. Several fights took place.  14 Warm. Frank Philips Gymnasium in Town.  15 Day disagreeable, rained very hard.  16 Unpleasant, with rain.  17 Pleasant. River very high, from the late rain.  18 Sunday, pleasant + warm  19 Unpleasant, more rian.  20 Day very Stormy with rain + snow.  21 Mild + pleasant. Snow flakes in the air.  22 Pleasant. Large Party at Ms. E. McClures had a good time, Jno. B. Linn was married to Miss Julia Pollock of Milton.  23 Day pleasant, business very dull.  24 Day Cloudy.  25 Very pleasant, rain at night, wrote to M.G. Norton.  26 Unpleasant, rain + very Stormy.  27 Day pleasant, cleaning Store.  28 Pleasant, very dull in Town.  29 Beautiful. Mr Pursell of Espytown married Em. Bright.  30 Day pleasant, business very dull.  31 Pleasant + comfortable, wrote to Ed.  __________________________  November. 1857.  1 Sunday. Pleasant + warm.  2 Warm, business very dull.  3 Day pleasant + warm, wrote to Mother.  4 Pleasant. Town very dull.  5 Unpleasant with rain, attended a large party at Jas. F. Linns, had a very pleasant time.
[Pg 40]  6 Day pleasant, rain at night.  7 Day beautiful. Lewis Iddings died. This morning was first attempt at public Market, a few wagons in attendance.  8 Very warm, rain at night.  9 Pleasant, buried L. Iddings, funeral large. This day the firm of Christ + Caldwell was dissolved by Mutual Consent, business Continued at the old Stand by F.S. Caldwell, rain at night.  10 Pleasant, a party of 9 went to the Mountain Deer hunting.  11 Day fine, business very dll.  12 Day warm, having a good time of it on the Mountain.  13 Day cool, had a chance to day, but amounted to nothing but fun.  14 Cold, with Snow, broke up our Camp + came home, we had a pleasant time, but shot no Deer this time. Seen but two Deer.  15 Day cool, but pleasant, a light Snow  16 Pleasant. I feel lost on acct. of having no business to do.  17 Comfortable. I have the Express to keep, which is a touch of business.  18 Cool, appearance of rain.  19 Day very cold, with snow. Frank went to Phila.  20 Very cold. Canal closed this night, Boats are fast.  21 Cold, appearance of Snow.  22 Sunday. Pleasant.  23 Unpleasant, with rain, adj. Court commenced.  24 Cold + windy, the Germanians gave a concert to night in I.H.  25 Day pleasant. 2nd concert, right good.  26 Beautiful. Thanksgiving day.  27 Day quite warm.  28 Pleasant, tried Skating on the creek.  29 Sunday. Pleasant. Jno. B. Miller of Newton Hamilton Pa. was married to Mrs. Jerusha K. Welch of this place Miss Mary A. Rawn Bridesmaid + myself was Groomsman, had a pleasant time. Martin Guyer died.  30 Pleasant. Buried M. Guyer, wrote to Emilie.  ________________________
[Pg 41]  December. 1857.  1 Pleasant. A party of young folks went to Joe. Muper: wrote to Ed.  2 Comfortable + warm.  3 Day pleasant. W.B. Shrivers Mother died.  4 Unpleasant. Buried Mrs. Shriver. Large party at A.M. Lawshes ^good time.  5 Moderate.  6 Agreeable weather.  7 Wrote to Emilie.  8 Pleasant.  9 Wrote to Robt. Hayes No 331 Coates Street.  10 Pleasant, with Snow.  11 Very cold. String Band, had a Soiree at Seminary, ^pleasant time.  12&13 Nothing of importance occurred. Settled in full with Mrs. E. ^Vorse  14 Day warm + pleasant. Court Commenced, full attendance.  15 Pleasant, wrote 2nd time to R.F. Hayed.  16,17,18,19 Missed my Journal.  20  Sunday, went to Milton on forenoon, in afternoon to Jos. Mussers  21 Day pleasant. Snow in afternoon, Snow, Hail + rain at night.  22 Unpleasant, plenty of mud + Snow. Dedicated the Independent Hall, with a Cotillion Party, had a pleasant time.  23 Pleasant.  24 Pleasant, in the evening our String Band played for Randolphs Reception, gratuitously, proceeds to be equally distributed among the destitute, full House, all pleased.  25 Christmas. Day pleasant, roads very rough, this was a big day for me. I attended no less than 6 different partie, during the day + evening, enjoyed this day very much, dancing +c +c.  26 Snowed all day quite Steady, roads in poor condition for sleighing.  27 Sunday. P. Peters married Miss Brewer at M.A. Stacks residence.
[Page 42]  28 Pleasant. Held a meeting in J. Hall to take into consideration the propriety of holding a Musical Convention.  29 Pleasant, over head. Frank Green of Bellefonte married Miss Clementine Harris of this place. Dancing School began.  30 Snowed during the day + evening very hard, the String Band + 9 of their friends, went out to Thos. Cornelius partook of a big supper, rain at night.  31 Rain in morning, wrote to Ed. Snow Storm in the evening, at 12. Midnight partook of an oyster Supper, given to the Brass + String Bands, at 12, the Steam whistles + all the Bells in town, commenced this noise, at 1 the Brass Band Commenced, then the Martial Music, + so it was Kept up untill daylight, there was a regular old fashioned time, some 2 or 300 persons on the street all night, a few fights + some a little tipsy.  ________________________  January. 1858.  1 Day very pleasant. Brass Band ^played in afternoon, in the evening was to a tea party at D.S. Kremers at 8- o. Clock there was some 30 young persons came out, with a violin + dropped in, so we just regulated things a little + then went to dancing. Kept it up untill 12 midnight, had a general good time, all pleased.  2 Pleasant + warm, very muddy, to day I quit Boarding at Mrs. E. Vorses + moved to Kremers. I was sorry to leave as I had been there nearly two years, still I was pleased to get to Kremers, on acct. on more room for my Studies +c +c.  3 Sunday, quite warm. Christians Baptized 5 in the River. Thos. Hate was Married to Elizabeth Moore, in church this evening.  4 Day pleasant + warm.  5 Warm, wrote to Mrs. S. Purinton. Snowed at night about 6 inches, it is very damp, will make more mud.
[Pg 43]  6 Walking very bad. Snow is soft. Commenced reading with Dr. Thos. H. Wilson, my first Book is Wilsons Anatomy by Goddard.  7 Day very pleasant & warm, had a fine Sociable partly at Dr Jno. Lockes, all enjoyed it very much.  8 Day pleasant + quite warm.  9 Day more cool, appearance of Snow. M. Chappels child ^died.  10 Sunday. Pleasant. Rev. Heberton of Wms.port Preached in Presbyterian Church in the morning. Subject Christian Consistency, Text. Let your light Shine before men, he sent it home to many members of that church, they felt his remarks quite Sensibly, it was ^an excellent ^Sermon, in the evening he preached again. Subject Promiscuous dancing among church Members. Text. 2nd Samuel, 6 chap. + 14 Verse. And David danced before the Lord with all his might, he also quoted the following passages. Exodus, 15 c + 20. V. Judges 11 c, + 34 V. 1st Samuel 21 c. 21 V. + 18 c + 6 V. Exodus 32 c. 19 V. Jerc: 31 c. 4 V. Mathew [sic] 11 c. 17 V. Luke 15 c. 25 V. Mathew 14 c. 6 V. Sermon was very good, he gave no opinions of his own, all quotations, he also used Ciceros Definitions of dancing, among the W- of Rome, he fetched his authority pretty far, upon the whole it was very good, + according to a Resolution passed at Presbytery in 1856.  11 Day unpleasant + very disagreeable, to night I heard Miss Margaret (Magnetic Lady) Lecture on Electors - Monology, Same as Magnetism, humbug.  12 Day very warm + pleasant. Town very dull.  13 Pleasant + warm. Jos. M. Housels child died. Scarlatina.  14 Day very warm, mud plenty. Buried Housels child.  15 Unpleasant with rain, attended a Soiree at Seminary, had a pleasant time.
[Pg 44]  16 Day pleasant, business through town looks bright.  17 Sunday, quite warm, in evening appearance of Snow.  18 Day pleasant. A. Mensch child died. Scarlatina.  19 Pleasant. A series of Lectures was commenced in Independent Hall this evening. Subject Religion + Politics, it was a good production. Lecturer James Aiken, house was crowded + listened attentively.  20 Morning pleasant, with a light Snow.  21 Pleasant + warm, had a fine party at H. Fricks  22 Warm + pleasant. Town very dull.  23 Day very warm.  24 Sunday, pleasant, appearance of rain. Christians Baptized 9 persons, to day + night.  25 Day very warm + pleasant, heavy fog at night, Frederick Marsh died, also children of Saml. Slifer + Peter Meixell.  26 Day unpleasant with heavy Showers, buried Slifers +Meixells children, a child of Adam Beaver died, wrote to Em. in evening J.M. Linn lectured in Independent Hall. subject Social Amusement, very good.  27 Day warm + pleasant. Buried F. Marsh funeral large.  28 Day pleasant. J. Gundy was married to Miss Fepler  29 Day quite cold + windy. Town very dull. John Jones Sr. returned from Calafornia [sic], looking very well.  30 Day pleasant. Cool + cloudy, took a bad cold.  31 Sunday quite warm + pleasant.  This month has been very moderate. Prof. C.S. James, says he Kept a careful watch of his Thermometer + finds it will average 5 above freezing, the whole month.  Took 2 Violin lessons this month.
[Pg 45]  February. 1858  1 Day cool, in evening Snow, wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Day unpleasant. Snow melting fast. 3rd lecture in Independent Hall, by Prof. Geo. R. Bliss. Subject, Mutual Relation between Labor + Learning To night Benj. Jordan of Harrisburg Married Mrs. Hannah Hood of Lewisburg, his age is said to by 79 + his wifes is 65 years.  3 Day very pleasant, a great many children sick in town.  4 Day pleasant + warm. Methodists are having a protracted Meeting + doing a big business. P.H. Beavers child ^buried.  5 Day comfortable + warm, a large dinner Party at Jos. Mussers, had a pleasant time. String Band had a Soiree at Seminary, good time.  6 Day very warm + pleasant.  7 Sunday. Warm + pleasant. John Hertz child died.  8 Pleasant. Town very dull.  9 Unpleasant with Snow, wrote to Puriton. 4th Lecture in Independent Hall, by O.N. Worden. Subject - Obstinates House was crowded. Lecture good.  10 Day very cold + Stormy, froze very hard in the night, coldest day weve had at yet this year. Dr C.F. Grier died.  11 Very cold + disagreeable. River frozen over, above the bridge. Sociable at Jno. Walls, had a pleasant time.  12 Day very cold. Buried Dr C.F. Grier funeral large.  13 Day cold + unpleasant, was to Milton.  14 Unpleasant. Snowed all day very Steady, very little Snow on the ground. Persons filling Ice House, about 4 inches thick, but very clear.  15 Cold + freezing hard with Snow. C.D. Cox child died, also Jacob Bridge, aged about 18 years. Court commenced, full attendance.
[Pg 46]    16 Day very cold + stormy. 5th Lecture in Independent Hall. Subject Reciprocal Interest of the Known + the Unknown. Lecturer Ex. Gov. Pollock, the delivered an excellent address, House crowded, had a fine party at Buffaloe House, in connection with the Milton party. Mrs Jas. Moore Sen. died. Also Shanafelts child.  17 Day very cold. Town lively, had a fine Party at P. Haughabuchs, danced untill 1 o. Clock  18 Day very cold. Helds Cornet + String Band gave a concert in Independent Hall, between tunes James Aiken amused the Audience, by telling Stories, reading Poetry +c, all passed off well. + all was well pleased, Amt, taken in about  $62- clear  19 Day moderate, Snowed steady all day and fine prospects of Sleighing, roads are in good order.  20 Still snowing this morning, it is very light + dry, Snow about 6 in. deep. Town is busy with people. Sleighing being very good. Court adjourned.  21 Sunday. Sleighing still fine + good use is being made of it. 222 Brass + String Bands took dinner at Weidensauls.  22 Sleighing tolerable, day quite warm. A Party of 9 person went to Northumberland, had a good time.  23 Very warm through the day, cold at night. Presbyterians Commenced a Series of meetings.  24 Day very cold, the coldest morning weve had all winter. Ther. 6 below zero. Sleighing all gone  25 Day pleasant. Town dull.  26 Day pleasant.  27 Day quite warm, business brisk in Town. Prof. Helds child died.  28 Day pleasant, appearance of rain, buried Helds child. Mr Ely of Selinsgrove was married to Miss Snody of this place.  Took Two Violin lessons this month.  Feb. 2nd Jno F. Shaffer was married to Sarah A. Houghton secretly
[Pg 47]  March 1858  1 Morning pleasant. Snow Storm in the evening, wrote to Bro. Ed. + recd a letter from him.  2 Day very cold + stormy. 6th Lecture in the Hall by Rev Dr Watson. Subject Claims of the Bible upon the American Citizens. House Crowded. Lecture good.  3 Day very cold, with Snow, amounts to nothing.  4 Day cold + Stormy with Snow. Recd Letter from Sis. Em.  5 Very cold. Coldest day this winter. Ther. 4 below zero.  6 Pleasant, but cool. Flavel Clark up the River died. Also a child of Pat. Divine.  7 Sunday. Day pleasant. John Nesbit Jr died aged 24 years, he was sick but a Short time. I staid with the Corpse all night in company with Jos. A Kremer, had an Irish Funeral to day,  8 Day cold, night windy. A Stinemetz child died.  9 Day very Stormy. Buried Jno. Nesbit Jr. funeral very large. 7th Lecture in the Hall by John Randolph Subject Home Influence Respectable Audience Lecture good. String Band Played.  10 Day pleasant, went Skating in Afternoon, Ice soft.  11 Day warm, very windy + dusty.  12 Day very pleasant, walked to Thos. Cornelius, had a good time.  13 Day warm. Town very lively appearance of Summer.  14 Sunday. Unpleasant, rained very hard this morning.  15 Day pleasant, appearance of rain. Overpecks child died, the Ice Started off the River at night.  16 Day warm + pleasant. 8th Lecture in the Hall by Henry C. Hickock Subject, Education Hall crowded Lecture good, but entirely to lengthy 2 Hours + 20 min. Wm. Carothers child died.  17 Day very warm + pleasant. Jacob Gundys child died.
[Pg 48]  18 Day pleasant + very warm. Roads drying off fast. River commenced rising. Ice gone long since. ^Sol. Young was married to Miss Hummel.  19 Day very pleasant + warm, had a fine dinner party at D. Rebers, to day played Crickett [sic].  20 Day pleasant + warm. James Aiken had a benefit in Independent Hall, it ^was well attended + interesting, full house.  21 Sunday. This morning the Baptists baptized three persons, very Stormy all day.  22 Day very pleasant + warm. Exercises at College Hill + Female Seminary commenced, in the Evening the Senior Academic declaimed in Baptist Church, all passed off well.  23 Warm + pleasant. Two of Saml. Bennetts children died. In the evening Jun. Collegiate class had exercises in Baptist Church. String Band played for them, afterwards took supper at Demormandies, good time.  24 Day very mild + pleasant. Exercises at College + Seminary Closed, all passed off well, four persons Suspended for being engaged in getting up Burlesques. Edward Moore was married to Miss Brown of White Deer.  25 Day very stormy. Randolphs Reception in Independent Hall, House crowder, String Band played. Ev. Zeigler married Miss Lewis of Lewisburg.  26 Day pleasant, except stormy at times, attended a large party at Col. J. Derrs given for his son George who was married to Miss Guss of S.  Haven on the 5th.  27 Day pleasant, quite warm. Lumber is + has been coming down the River for Several days very plenty.  28 Sunday, day warm, a light rain, old Mrs. Samuel Ream died, aged 76 years.  29 day very pleasant. Moving has commenced.  30 Day pleasant. Daily Prayer Meeting commenced at Independent Hall at 1.2 past 12. 9th Lecture in the Hall by Prof. Curts. Subject Coleridge house crowded. Lecture splendid.  31 Day pleasant + warm. Prayer meeting as usual, wrote to Bro Ed.  Took 1 violin lesson this month.
[Pg 49]  April 1858.  1 Day beautiful + warm, a general moving day. Town totally up side down for a few hours. John Randolphs child died. Prayer meetings still in progress.  2 Day pleasant, moving still going on. J. Wesley Chamberlin and myself went to Williamsport, found all well.  3 Warm + comfortable, we left Wms.port for Muncy, took Dinner at Bowmans. Twa at R. Montgomerys + Spent the evening at Ed. Lyons, in all had a splendid time, enjoyed ourselves very much.  4 Sunday spent the day at Bowmans evening at r. Montgomerys, had a pleasant time.  5 Day warm, light rain in the mornin, returned to Lewisburg, enjoyed our visit very much.  6 Day very cold + Stormy, appearance of winter.  Sent Mrs. S. Christ a draft for $91.64 on Lewisburg Back, also a letter, this evening had a large Sociable at Chamberlins good time. 10th Lecture in Ind. Hall. Subject Habits + their Influence, by Rec. Marr.  7 Day cold + unpleasant, appearance of rain.  8 Day cool, rained very hard. Prayer meetings well attended.  9 Day more pleasant, rained part of the day, a child of O.P. Chamberlin died with Scarlatina.  10 Day unpleasant with rain. J. Wesley Chamberlin started for Calafornia [sic].  11 Sunday, rained hard all day. Z. Meixell was married to Jeanette Kelly in Methodist Church.  12 Rained hard all day. J. Wilson Musser Started for Calafornia [sic].  13 Day unpleasant, rained all day. River very high.  14 Still raining, at times very cold Rafts running thich, water falling. Daily Prayer meetings are still in progress.  15 Day pleasant. Wm. Lawson Esqr. of Milton was married to Mr. A.D. Shannon of Lewisburg.  16 Day very pleasant + warm. Rafts still coming down the River.
[Pg 50]    17 Day very pleasant. Town lively.  18 Day beautiful, John Chamberlin died aged 61 yrs. Also a child of H. Brants + one of Mrs. Myers.  19 Day unpleasant, rain through the day. Wm Jones child died. Sat up with the corpse.  20 Rained all day, quite hard. Buried John Chamberlin funeral very large, also Wm. Jones child. Presbytery commenced to day, full attendance.  21 Day very pleasant, attended Presbytery, proceedings very interesting, business begins ^to look encouraging. Wrote to Em.  22 Day very pleasant + warm. Trees are putting forth evidences of Summer, the country is looking beautiful, Presbytery closed yesterday, after a session of two days.  23 Day very pleasant. Merchants are receiving their Spring goods. Samuel Strickland died aged 4 yrs, also Thos. Clingan of Kelly Twsp.  24 Day cold. Town lively. Snowed quite Smart for a few minutes  25 Day very pleasant. Buried Saml. Strickland funeral large.   26 Day pleasant, Buried Thos. Clingan funeral large, ^Court commenced, Adjourned  27 Day cool, a very heavy frost this morning, ice was seen on rain barrels +c. fruit very much injured by frost.  28 Day pleasant, very dusty at times. Dr Jno. Lockes child died. Court slimly attended.  29 Day comfortable. Rained very hard at night, with Thunder and Lightning. Mr English of Phila. Was Married to Miss A. Evans.  30 Day very warm + sultry, rain occasionally.  Took 2 violin lessons this month.
[Pg 51]  May 1858.  1 Day pleasant. Ton very brisk merchant recd new goods.  2 Sunday. Warm + pleasant.  3 Day pleasant, but cool, frost in the morning.  Sent Mother her Interest money by Rev. Marr + a letter.  4 Day pleasant + warm.  5 Day unpleasant. Rained hard all day, went fishing with outline, poor luck.  6 Day pleasant. River very high.  7 Day cool + pleasant. Mrs. John Walls died, aged 45 years. Also Henry Hess aged 62 years.  8 Day pleasant + warm, appearance of rain.  9 Day warm, in evening rained very hard. Buried Henry Hess in forenoon Mrs. J. Walls in afternoon, funerals ^very large  10 Day cold + unpleasant, with rain. Rafts are again running.  11 Rained very hard + Steady. River rising very fast.  12 Day very cool + windy.  13 Day very warm + pleasant. Appearance of rain in evening.  14 Day unpleasant with rain in forenoon, afternoon fair River very high Lumber running. Wrote to Bro. Ed.  15 Day pleasant. Town very lively. Took my bed with a very painful Boil on my leg, on Sartorius Muscle.  16 Sunday. Day pleasant. Mariah McClure baptized  17 Day unpleasant. Court commenced. Pres. Judge absent. Associate Judge officiated. Judge Rhule. Og. Vorse, family + Mariah McClure went to Ill.  18 Day pleasant, rain in evening.  19 Day warm. Boil getting better, am bed fast and have been since Saturday.  20 Day cold + unpleasant with rain, first time I was up town Since Saturday last, on acct. Of my Boil.  21 Day pleasant + cool. River still high.
[pg 52]  22 Day cool, with Rain. Town very lively.  23 Sunday, day warm + pleasant. Rained very hard at night.  24 Day quite warm + comfortable. Country is looking fine.  25 Day unpleasant. Rained very hard.  26 Unpleasant, rained all day. River rising fast.  27 Day dreary, with rain. A child of John Lillys died also a child of JAcob Bridge. River still rising.  28 Day pleasant + clear. River very high, but is falling.  29 Unpleasant, with rain.  30 Day cloudy, appearance of more rain.  31 Rained very hard. Recd a letter from Bro. Ed.  Took 2 Violin lessons this month.  ________________________________  June. 1858.  1 Day very warm + pleasant appearance of Summer wrote to Ed.  2 Day very pleasant + warm.  3 Day pleasant, quite warm, evening cloudy.  4 Unpleasant, with rain.  5 Day unpleasant with rain.  6 Pleasant + warm in forenoon. Storm in afternoon.  7 Day pleasant + warm,  8 Day warm. Went Trout fishing to W. Deer Creek 11 persons.  9 Warm + good fishing, in the Branches of the creek  10 Warm, had a light showed, big creek too high.  11 Rained hard, party retd home had a good time, all well pleased. Caught about 500 Trout.  12 Day unpleasant, rained hard all day. River rising fast.  13 Day pleasant + warm. Wheat + Rye are blown down by the Storms of yesterday. River still rising.  14 Day very pleasant + warm.  15 Day warm + comfortable.  16 Warm. Crops are looking fine. River falling fast.
[Pg 53]  17 Day very warm. P.N. Ginter was Married to Miss Amanda Miller both of Lewisburg, wrote to D.W.B.  18 Day pleasant, very warm + sultry. Wheat filling fine.  19 Very warm + sultry. Ther. 90. Town lively.  20 Sunday. Hot day, with Thunder.  21 Day very warm + cloudy. Ther. 88 in the shade at noon.  22 Still warm + dusty, business dull. Cutting grass.  23 Day cool + pleasant. Fixed fence at Cemetery lot + Painted.  24 Day very warm, cloudy in afternoon  25 Day still warm. Ther. 90 in shade.  26 Day very hot. Ther 92in shade, a heavy storm in afternoon, with a light shower, farmers [sic] Making Hay.  27 Sunday very warm in forenoon, had a fine rain in afternoon.  28 Day very warm. Town dull. Ther. 94 in shade  29 Day very warm, had my first patient at Tooth Extracting, was very successfull, on first trial, wrote to Emilie.  30 Day very warm, farmers busy. Town dull, wrote to Ed.  Took 2 Violin lessons [sic] this month.  _______________________________  July 1858.  1st Thursday, warm + pleasant, appearance of rain.  2 Day warm, in afternoon had a fine rain.  3 Forenoon pleasant. The 4th was celebrated to day in Independent Hall by an able and interesting Oration from Dr Wm. Elder of Phila. Subject, modern civilization it was attentively listened to, by a respectable audience small in number. Afternoon + evening it rained very hard, so much so that the Promenade Concert that was to have come off was postponed, to the disappointment of many.  4 Sunday. Day fine, air cool + pleasant.  5 Day pleasant, in the evening there was a meeting of the citizens at the Buffalo House, to celebrate the 4th by a supper, speeches was delivered by citizens.
[Pg 54]  6 Day pleasant. Farmers Commenced Harvesting, went to Muncy.  7 Day cool, had a pleasant time at Muncy, retd in the evening.  8 Day very warm, farmers very busy.  9 Day warm, fine Shower in afternoon, attended a large party Jno. W. Young in Mifflinburg.  10 Day pleasant, retd from Mifflinburg.  11 Day very warm. Supposed to be the hottest day this Summer. Storm at night.  12 Day fine in forenoon. Afternoon had a heavy rain with wind.  13 Day cool + pleasant, went fishing with a Seine. Caught a fine [illegible].  14 Day pleasant, rain in afternoon.  15 Very warm, witnessed a reaper trial between Manny + Hussey  16 Day very warm + pleasant.  17 Day comfortable, had a fine Pic Nic up Buffaloe Creek above Van Valzahs Mill, over 100 young persons in attendance, had a delightfull time, all pleased + every thing went off well.  18 Day cool + pleasant, a light rain in the morning.  19 Day cool, business very dull in Town. Harvest about closing  20 Day comfortable, appearance of rain.  21 Day pleasant.  22 Day warm. Strangers are coming in thick, to attend University + Seminary Exercises, that commenced to day.  23 Day cool + comfortable. Town is being crowded with Strangers  24 Day pleasant. Examinations closed at Seminary, String Band assisted playing the closing piece. Called Battle of N. Orleans, it went off ^well.  25 Sunday. Day pleasant. Rev. R. Jeffreys Preached the Am, Sermon before the Society of Inquiry in the New College Chapel, it was very good.  26 Day pleasant + very warm, in the Afternoon 15 young Sadies Graduated in the Seminary. Exercised very interesting, in the evening Rev. Robert Lowry delivered the oration before the Alumni it was very good, house crowded. Subject our National Future  27 Very warm + dusty in forenoon there was 8 young men graduated in the Theological department in the evening the Societies was addressed by W.H. Burleigh of N. York as orator + John G. Saxe of Burlington Vermont as Poet, both were very good. String Band played.
[Pg 55]  28 Very warm + dusty. Town crowded in every hole + corner, decidedly the greatest day ever Lewisburg had as regards the Strangers, in the forenoon there was 10 young men graduated in the regular course, they acquitted themselves nobly this was the regular Commencement day, in the evening we had a Promenade Concert + dance in Independent Hall, had a pleasant + interesting time all passed off well, house crowded. Exercises closed.  29 Warm + pleasant. Strangers leaving Town pretty fast.  30 Day very hot in forenoon, in afternoon had a fine Shower, evening pleasant.  31 Day pleasant + comfortable.  Took 3 Violin lessons this month  ___________________________________________  August 1858.  1 Sunday pleasant. Rained all night wrote to Ed.  2 Day unpleasant, rained hard all day + night.  3 Day unpleasant, still raining quite hard, wrote to Mother.  4 Day comfortable, rain in forenoon, very warm in afternoon.  5 Very warm + sultry. Telegraphic dispatch came this afternoon that the Telegraph cable was laid from England to Newfoundland.  6 Day very warm, went to Northumberland for a ride.  7 Day hot, appearance of rain.  8 Day pleasant + warm.  9 Pleasant. Af ine sociable at Jos. Mussers, had a pleasant time. ^camp meeting at Nagles Woods, shower at night.  10 Warm. R.F. Crawford of Illinois was married to Maggie M. Kremer of this place, had a pleasant time at the wedding.  11 Day pleasant. Miss Hannah Black died aged      years, also a child of Isaac Wagners, a child of Mr. Faust was drowned at Chilisquaque Creek, from Lewisburg.  12 Day pleasant + warm. Wm. Wolfe was married to Miss Wilhelm of ^Milton  13 Day warm. Buried H. Black funeral large. Camp meeting commenced above Milton.  14 Day pleasant + warm.
[Pg 56]  15 Sunday, warm + very dusty, went to Camp Meeting above Milton. Some 50 gent in the circle + about 10000 persons present, the largest camp I ever seen.  16 Day very warm. Still dusty.  17 Day warm. Queens Message was recd to day at noon, also Pres. Buchanans both Slim affairs. The church bells was rung in honor of the successful event of the Atlantic Telegraph Cable.  18 Day pleasant + warm, in the evening we had a heavy storm which blew down quite a number of Trees +c in Town, it rained very ^hard.  19 Day cold enough for fire, a great change in the weather.  20 Day still cool + cloudy. Town very dull.  21 Cool + pleasant. Attended a Harvest Home Dinner at the Riviere House. Ex. Gov. Pollock made some appropriate remarks.  22 Day pleasant + warm, evening cool.  23 Day cool + comfortable  24 This morning we had a light frost  25 Day quite warm. Saml Waldrum (Cold) died, aged 55 yrs, he was a quiet + peaceable citizen, highly educated + was the Barber of the Town for many years.  26 Day warm + pleasant, buried Saml. Waldrum funeral quite large.  27 Day disagreeable, rained Steady the greater part of the day.  28 Day unpleasant, rained very hard, nearly all day.  29 Day cloudy with drizzling showers, evening cool.  30 Day pleasant. Adjd Court Commenced full attendance. Republicans held their County Convention, quite an interesting time, all pleased.  31 Day pleasant + warm. Court slimly attended to day, wrote to Em.  Took 2 Violin lessons this month.  _________________________________
[Pg 57]  September. 1858.  1 Day pleasant + warm. Town quite lively. Wrote to Ed.  2 Day very warm, heavy fog in the morning.  3 Pleasant, with rain. Court still in Session wrote to Heilner  4 Day warm + pleasant, rain at night.  5 Sunday, warm + comfortable.  6 Day warm + pleasant Peter Martin was married to Fesser. ^H.R. Noll was married to Miss J.H. Davenport of Plymouth Pa.  7 Pleasant, very warm. State encampment commenced at Williamsport.  8 Very warm + dusty. Quite a party of us went to Williamsport. ^S.O. Goodlander of Ill. was married to Sallie K. Price of Lewisburg.  9 Still very warm. General review day by the Governor. Some 800 Tents up + only about 600 Soldiers in attendance all told, the military part is an entire failure, but there is any quantity of lookers on in attendance, Wmsport is crowded in every hole + corner.  10 Still warm + very duty. Returned home, rain at night.  11 Day pleasant, morning cool.  12 Sunday, warm + pleasant.  13 Day pleasant, cool in the morning. Court commenced full attendance Burkes Negro Minstrels in Town. Merchants receiving their fall goods.  14 Day very pleasant + warm. Sister Emilie was married to John Dewalt both of Freeport Ill. by the Rev. Vanzant.  15 Day cool with rain + wind  16 Day unpleasant with rain, three colored children taken up as vagrants two boys + one girl.  17 Day quite warm, + pleasant.  18 Day warm. Court adjourned, the Comet is Seen every evening + morning.  19 Sunday, very pleasant.  20 Day pleasant + very warm. I attended a sociable at Jos Mussers.  21 Day very warm, in the evening we had a heavy storm.  22 Day very cold + windy, fire feels quite comfortable. Students returning  23 Day pleasant + warm. College + Seminary both opened to day for their winter Session, quite a respectable number of new recruits in both.
[Pg 58]  24 Day very unpleasant with a cold rain, cleared off in the evening.  25 Day pleasant + warm. Comet is still to be seen evenings + morning.  26 Sunday, warm + comfortable.  27 Day pleasant + warm. Bro. John Dewalt + Sister Emilie arrived from Freeport Ill. Jno. W. Killinger addressed the citizens of Lewisburg. ^is our Republican candidate for Congress  28 Day pleasant. Took a ride through the the county. Wm. T. Johnston ^ was married to Miss Cornelius.  29 Dy warm + pleasant. Town very dull.  30 Day Stormy with rain, in the evening attended a large Party at D.F. Kremers, had a fine time. Wrote to Bro. Ed.  Took 2 Violin lessons [sic] this month.  ______________________  October. 1858.  1 Day pleasant + warm, business dull.  2 Day warm + comfortable, spent the day visiting in the country.  3 Sunday warm, appearance of rain.  4 Day very warm, with rain in the evening, heard Judson Hutchinson + Daughter sing in Independent Hall. Concert was good.  5 Day pleasant. Sister Emilie + Husband left us, on their way West, in the evening W.A.S + myself took Misses L.V, C.B, S.B. to Jos. Musser where we Spent the evening, had a pleasant time. A.G. Curtin addressed the Republicans in Independent Hall.  6 Day pleasant, went to Milton + attended the agri fair.  7 Day cold with rain.  8 Day windy, went to the Fair, a great many People in attendance, in the evening bed my friends good bye + afterwards we, the members of String Band took a general Serenade around Town. Paid Held in full.  9 Day pleasant. Left Home to attend my 1st course of Medical Lectures at the University Medical College N. York City arrived at Phila. at 1+ A.M. Sunday morning, attended several Lectures at the Penna. + University College of Phila, was highly pleased, called to see a number of my old friends there, found them all well.  10 Sunday a pleasant day took an attack of Billious Fever, was very sick at night. Rev. Kerr entered upon his duties in the Pres. Church to day.
[Pg 59]  11 Pleasant. I feel much better to day. Spent the evening at the Academy of Music + heard the Ravels.  12 Unpleasant with rain. Election day. Considerable excitement going on throughout the city. Saml. Roush Died at ^Shamokin.  13 Still unpleasant, more rain. Election all right, the whole State gone Republican, the voters at long last have decided to vote for principles + not men. Buchanans Administration completely outdone. Union County Republican Ticket all elected.  14 Pleasant, left Phila. For N. York where we arrived in safety in about 4 hours. # Agr. Fair Commenced at Lewisburg.  15 Pleasant, find N. York as lively as a swarm of bees, went up to the University, took a look at the museum +c, made the acquaintance of Several of the Professors + was well pleased, went on the search of board, found a comfortable home at Mrs. Buthams No. 59 E. 14th St.  16 Very warm. Took out my Tickets, attended Prof. Posts clinique + seen a number of Diseases operated upon or rather surgical operations performed, attened Niblos + seen Miss. A. Robertson +c perform Panorette.  17 Sunday. Pleasant. Spent my time in forenoon writing to my friends, in afternoon went to the Navy Yard + went aboard Barque Release. Met my friend Lieut. Maxwell + Master of Ship Perkins.  18 Day pleasant. To day our regular Lectures at the University Commenced, during the day I witnessed Several Surgical operations.  19 Warm + pleasant, find the School very full of Students.  20 Day pleasant + very warm, witnessed some fine + interesting operations.  21 Day cool + pleasant, witnessed the dissecting of a Subject 1st time.  22 Day unpleasant, with rain. Lewisburg Oct. 20th Mrs Grant Lawshe + Jos. Kremer was ^married  23 Pleasant. I visited the New York Hospital 1st time.  24 Sunday. Day unpleasant with rain, in the evening heard the Rev. Dr Cheever Preach his Text was Mark 2 Chap. + 27 + 28th verses. I have heard many better Sermons than this was.
[Pg 60]  25 Pleasant, but cool. Students still coming in.  26 Day pleasant, recd 3 Letters + 1 Paper from home.  27 Pleasant. Last night a most horrible tragedy came off in 30th Street + in a respectable family, a young man a spendthrift wanted more money from his father, when it was refused, the son took the hatchet + struck his brother with it on his head, the Father chastized him, when he cut his Father, Mother, two Servants, + 1 other brother + then blew out his own brains, the Father has since died + the rest ^is in a very critical condition. Cant live long.  28 Day cool + pleasant. Politics running high in this city.  29 Unpleasant with rain, every day + night there are Processions ^here hor Political effect.  30 Still raining, mud plenty.  31 Sunday, day very warm + pleasant in the afternoon heard Rev. Stephen H. Tyng D.D. preach, his Text was 6 chapter + 1st verse of Joshua, he delivered a very fine discourse. Episcopalian. Gust, is sick with ^cramp in the Stomach.  ______ _________  ____________  November 1st 1858  1 Day pleasant + warm. J.N. Kline paid us a visit. Recd a letter from Bro. Edward + wrote him in return. Gust is better.  2 Day cool. Election day, a great excitement here all day, fighting, drunkeness etc. etc.. Bonfire at night.  3 Unpleasant with a cold rain. This evening E.A. Grouxs of Hamburg Germ. exhibited himself to our Medical Class, + it was truly a Singular phenomena, it was a Remarkable case of Congenital Absence of Sternum, the movements of the Heart visible, by inhaling into his Lungs air, he could stop the pulsations of the Heart. I seen it, to my own entire Satisfaction ^in every other respect he was not deficient.  4 Unpleasant with rain.  5 Pleasant, but cold + windy in the evening was at the Opera, heard Mad. Gazzaniga play the Opera of Lucrezia Borgia, it was splendid.  6 Cold rain all day, very disagreeable.  7 Sunday. Cold + windy, in the forenoon heard the Rev. E.H. Chapin preach a most powerful Sermon from this Text, Mathew [sic] 20 chap + 22 verse Ye know not what ye ask, he alo read the ciii Psalm, it was a splendid production, neither was it, what is called a doctrinal sermon.
[Pg 61]  8 Day pleasant. This evening went to the Opera, heard the following distinguished Artists, in the Opera of In-Don-Giovanni or Don Juan, by Mozart. Mme. Gazzaniga, Mme. Piccolomini, Mme Ghioni, + Carl Farnes, Signors Gassier, Lorini, Weinlich + Gasparoni, also seen Mlle. Soto dance, it was splendid, the house crowded +c.  9 Day pleasant but cool, witnessed an operation on the Scalp of a young Lady for three Encysted Tumors, without the least pain, by using Electricity as an Anesthetic, before the College Class.  10 Day pleasant. Spent the evening at the Pathological Society, held at the 23rd St. College, Many interesting diseases was shown + debated upon, by the College Profs + Hospital Surgeon + Physicians  11 Day pleasant, attended a meeting of the Physicians of N.Y. at the U. College, for the purpose of taking means to Secure the appointment of M.D. + no others to fill the different health offices of the City, instead of being filled as they now are, by Barbers, Ostlers +c +c. the meeting wa quite a Spirited one, Some 400 M.D. students present  12 Day cool + comfortable.  13 Unpleasant with rain, attended N. York. Dispensary Clinique.  14 Day cold, ice this morning quite thick, heard Rev. G.A. Peltz preach Text 5th chap + 25 Verse of Ephesians, it was a very good Sermon, after Service (he recognizing me in church) he came to me + insisted upon my going home with him, I done so, took dinner with him + Lady + spent a few hours pleasantly in the evening I heard the Rev. Vanzandt a Dutch Reformed preach. Text 19th chap 41st verse St. Luke, Subject the demoralization of the city, its causes +c he preached a splendid Sermon to a large Audience.  15 Day very cold with Snow, in the afternoon I commenced dissecting, our class consists of five, it feel to my lot to dissect the left upper extremity. I picked up my Scalpel + made a commencement, the Subject is a woman about 40 years of age, in good order.  16 Day pleasant. I dissected a few hours, find it tedious work.  17 Day cool but pleasant, dissected all forenoon. I begin to like it would sooner do that, than attend Lectures, I feel very much interested in my subject, getting along finely.
[Pg 62]  18 Day pleasant  cool. Thanksgiving day. Spent the forenoon dissecting, in the evening called to see Miss Cornish, was to Church.  19 Day cool + windy, a duel was fought today by Some of our Students, two shots was exchanged, no damage done. A.A. + R of N.C.  20 Day pleasant. Moved my boarding place to No. 104 opposite the College this evening I witnessed the reception of Hibernia Steam Engine No 1 of Phila. by the Americus Big 6 of N.Y. assisted by all the other Fire Companies in this city, it was a splendid affair + very lengthy procession.  21 Sunday. Snowed + hailed all morning, in the evening heard Rev. Jas. W. Alexander D.D. preach from the 22nf chap. + 17 v. of Revelation, in the Academy of Music, to a large + attentive audience.  22 Day pleasant, rain at night.  23 Unpleasant, with rain, was at N.Y. Hospital, witnessed an operation on a woman of Resection of Ununited fracture of the Femur by Dr. Markoe.  24 Day pleasant, Dissected all forenoon, in the evening heard the Rev. t. Starr King deliver a Lecture in Dr Chaplins church, before the Young Mens Christian Association. Subject Laws of Disorder, it was a very entertaing [sic] address, he kept the audience in fine spirits all the time.  25 Day pleasant. To day is Evacuation day her in N.Y. called so because on this day in 1783 the British forces, which had occupied the city of New York, during most of the Revolutionary war, Sailed from the Battery, and Surrendered the city to the American Arms, this day has been celebrated once a year ever since in different ways, the Military made a splendid display + way reviewed by Gov. King. Gen. Paez of Venezuela was participating in the exercises, when his Horse fell + he was severely injured, he was to sail for home on Saturday.  26 Day cold. Dissected part of the day.   27 Day cold + windy. Dissected all day, finished the Arm. Prof V. Mott ^told us to day that he tied the innominate artery in May 1818, it never had been tied before.  28 Sunday. Cold this morning + snowing very hard, wrote to Father, Wes. C. + D.W.B. in the evening I heard Judge Edmonds deliver a Lecture. Subject The Heaven + Hell of the Spiritualists, I was not favorably impressed with his discourse, he is a firm believer + advocate of Spiritualism, he thinks every man will be his own redeemer +c.
[Pg 63]  29 Day cold + disagreeable, ground frozen very hard. Prof. V. Mott Says, Sir Astley Cooper said the only person he envied in this world was V. Mott, because he tied the Arteria Innomita [arteria innominata or brachiocephalic artery], first man in the world that ever tied + succeeded, the patient lived 26 days. I seen the artery with its Tumor, in class on Saturday last.  30 Day pleasant, ground frozen very hard. Visited the Demilt Dispensary, Seen quite a number of cases treated.   __________________________________  December. 1858.  1 Day cold + pleasant, in the evening heard Signora Mario deliver a Lecture in Clinton Hall, Subject Italy and the Papacy. She who was imprisoned in 1857 on account of her exertions in the Cause of Italian Liberty in Genoa, where she resided as correspondent of the London Daily News. She was the (late Miss Jessie Meriton White) an English Lady. She was introduced to the Audience by the Hon. Horace Greeley, it was interesting + instructive, She predicts the next get Struggle for Liberty will be the Italians.  2 Day unpleasant, with rain + wind. Wrote to Bro. Edward  3 Day cool + pleasant. Edwin Frick married Miss C. Reitmyer both of Lewisburg.  4 Unpleasant with rain. Dissected all afternoon in the evening heard the Ravels at Niblo in the Green Monster, is very good.  5 Sunday, unpleasant with rain, in the evening heard the REv. Geo. W. Bethune D.D. (Presbyterian) preach, from the 17th chap + 28th v. Do thyself no harm. of Acts, in the Academy of Music, house was crowded full, he preached a splendid Sermon. I noticed on the Stage Maj. Genl. Winfield Scott, looking very well, wrote to M. V-.  6 Day pleasant, in the evening heard the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher Lecture in Coopers Institue [sic] Subject The Laws of Sympathy Applied to Common Life. The House was crowded ful, he is a ready + fluent speaker + said many truthfull + well timed remarks. I was highly pleased with him + his Lecture, he had the audience laughing frequently.
[Pg 64]  7 Day unpleasant, with rain.  8 Day pleasant, dissected all forenoon, heard the 2nd Lecture of Signora Mario Subject The first Martyrs of Italian Liberty, up to 1844, wrote to Mother.  9 Day pleasant but very cold + windy, ground frozen.  10 Pleasant + very cold.  11 Day pleasant. Dissected all afternoon.  12 Sunday, day beautiful + warm in the morning, went over to Brooklyn + heard the Rec. Henry Ward Beecher Preach. Text 4th cahp + 8th verse Phillippians [sic], church crowded very full, he delivered a splendid sermon, full of original matter + plain every day truths, in the evening heard the Rev. T.L. Cuyler Preach in Cooper Institute. Subject The Eagles Nest of Gods Discipline with Souls, Text 32nd chap + 11th Verse of Deuteronomy, he delivered an excellent discourse to a crowded house, wrote to Dan + Wes.  13 Day unpleasant with rain. Our Landlady was Sold out to day, in the evening heard A. Oakley Smith Esqr. Deliver a Lecture in Coopers Institute Subject Lights + Shadows of Courts + Jury Rooms, he delivered a very fine address + displayed considerable wit in his remarks.  14 Unpleasant with rain + fog.  15 Day still unpleasant, with rain. A.G.W. + R. was dismissed from C.  16 Day very pleasant, sun shone nearly all day.  17 Pleasant. Gust Walls left for home this afternoon.  18 Day pleasant. Visited Bellvue [Bellevue] Hospital. Moved back to Mrs. Buthams.  19 Pleasant, very cold, in the morning heard the Rev. Robt. Lowry preach. I took dinner with him + family + had a talk about old Lewisburg, went with him to Sunday School + heard him preach again in the afternoon, both sermons as very good, is well liked. I spent the time with him very pleasantly, in the evening heard the Rev. Wm. Hague D.D. preach in the Academy of Music. Text 8th chap. 13th verse of 2nd Kings, house crowded. Sermon good.  Wrote to J. Walls.  20 Day unpleasant, with Snow in morning, rain in evening.  21 Unpleasant, rained all day.
[Pg 65]  22 Day pleasant. There was a fight between a South Carolina Student + one from Indiana in the Amphitheatre at the College, considerable blood split, the S.C. was whipped badly at a regular fisticuff, attended Bellevue Hospital. Saw the leg of a woman amputated, in the evening heard Dr Oliver Wendell Holmes deliver a Lecture in Clinton Hall Subject Chief end of Man he is a fine Lecturer + very interesting, house crowded, after that was over I attended the Mount Vernon Festival at the Academy of Music, under the direction of the Ladies of New York City, in order to raise Money to assist in purchasing the Home of Washington, it consisted of a grad Musical entertainment, in which there was over 100 performs, there was thousands in attendance, the Room was beautifully decorated with flowers, drapery +c the Flags of all Nations was hung all around the room, mottoes was to be seen everywhere. Among the rest was this, in letters represented by burning gas, Woman Rescues His home + Tomb, another Woman givers Mount Vernon the the Nation attached to this was a painting of Vernon also a portrait of Washington, it was a magnificent affair, music good + all passed off well. Musical directors was Musard + Carl Bergman, wrote to W.H. + Gust. S-  23 Day pleasant, missed Lectures because I was compelled to stay in the house with my head tied up in a Poultice, for boils in my Ear.  24 Pleasant, Still at home, and an addition of a boil on each arm, the 1sr Session of College Lectures closed untill Jany 3rd 1859.  25 Very pleasant, but cold. Christmas day + very lively, it was hard for me to remain at home, while every body else (except two others boarders who was sick in bed) appeared to be enjoying themselves, + I myself in the house bundled up with poultices.  26 Sunday, boils better, in the evening went to the A. of Music + heard the Rev. Jos. P. Thompson D.D. Preach. Text. 4 chap + 46 verse of S. John. House crowded as usual.  Day pleasant with rain at night.
[Pg 66]  27 Day pleasant. Spent the day visiting Dusseldorf Gallery of Paintings, where I seen Powers Greek Slave among the collection, is of Solid Marble, the rest are all painting. I then visited Barnums Museum, + spent the ballance of the day very pleasantly.  28 Day pleasant, am again afflicted with an addition of boils.  29 Unpleasant with a light rain, is very cold, this evening I recd a note from my friend Wm. Frick requesting me to call + see him at the Astor House, which I done very willingly. I was pleased to see him + hear the news of home, we then went to Wallacks Theatre + heard the Merchants of Venice played.  30 Snowing all day very hard, called to see Frick again, when we visited Dusseldorf Gallery + in the evening went to Laura Keenes Theatre + heard Our American Cousin played. I stayed all night with Frick.  31 Very unpleasant all day. Sleighing all gone + plenty of mud, to day I went Shopping with Frick, he left this evening for home. I was very sorry to see him go, in the evening I went to the Everett House to see + hear Hon. S.A. Douglas. Serenaded by Dodworths Band, also to hear the Judge make a Speech which he did, to not a very large crowd, the night was unpleasant, there are now in the city quite a number of distinguished Senators. Broderick of Cal, Houston of Texas, Speaker Orr +c.  _____  _______  ________ ________   Mrs. Hannah Christ (my Grandmother) died in Minersville at the residence of her son-in-law Wm. DeHaven on the 21st inst. Aged 77 years. The following communication appeared in the papers. It is truly a consolation to record the death of one who has lived to such an advanced age, and died in the true faith of our Savior. She felt satisfied, upon her peaceful dying bed, that her future seat was already prepared at the right hand of Him who doeth all things well. She lived the life of a true Christian.   Of Mothers, the fondest was she;   A companion and wife very dear:   Oh; may we in Heaven all meet thee,   Wheres no parting not yet scalding tear.  W.
[Pg 67]  January 1859.  1 Morning very unpleasant with rain, afternoon clear, made a few calls + found every body else at the same business, I consider the practice as carried on by many, a humbug. I never before seen in one day, so many drunken people, all staggering + perfectly happy, at least apparently so. Wrote to Ed.  2 Day very pleasant.  Wrote to A.G.W. - J.W.C. - D.W.B.  3 Pleasant + comfortable, 2nd Session of Lectures was was resumed to day. Profs all ready for action + in good humor, wrote to Dr T.H.W.  4 Day cold + unpleasant, last night it commenced Snowing + continued all forenoon, is not 6 to 8 in. in depth. Sleighs are out + good use is being made of them. Sleighing is excellent.  5 Day pleasant. Sleighing Still excellent. Visited Bellevue Hospital.  6 Pleasant + warm. Snow melting fast, in the evening I heard Frederick Douglas Esqr. (cold once a Slave) Lecture. Subject Self Made Men, he is an original + excellent Speaker, his audience was large + evidently well pleased, by their numerous acclamations they made during the address, the Lecture would do credit to any of his white brethren. I was highly interested in it.  7 Day unpleasant with rain. Sleighing entirely gone. Wrote H.W.C.  8 Day cold + windy. Snow Storm in the morning.  9 Sunday, very cold + windy. Wrote to D.S.K. + W.A.S.  10 Very cold Ther. 9 below zero, have a gathering in my hand.  11 Still cold + windy. I had my Felon on my hand cut open.  12 More pleasant, visited Bellevue Hospital, in the evening attended the Pathological Society, many interesting Specimens presented.  13 Pleasant + warm. In the evening heard the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher Lecture in Cooper Institute. Subject Burdens of Society it was delivered in his usual pleasant manner + was frequently applauded, house was full  11th Thaddeus Bogle of Wmsport married Rachel A. Pollock of Lewisburg
[Pg 68]  14 Day unpleasant with rain. Hand is improving.  15 Unpleasant with more rain. Visited Bellevue Hospital.  16 Sunday very pleasant + warm. Had a Severe headache all day, did not attend church. Wrote to A.G.W.  17 Day very pleasant. Visited New York Hospital. Seen Dr. Buck perform an operation on the skull of a man who had been shot at + hit twice + did not kill him, in the evening heard Bryants Minstrels, was well pleased.  18 Day pleasant + warm. Visited New York Hospital Seen Prof. Wm. H. VanBuren remove a very large fatty Tumor from a womans back weighed about 10 lbs, it was a fine operation. Wrote to Sister P.  19 Day very pleasant + warm. In the morning I Started for Greenwood Cemetery in Company with 3 other Students, we spent the day there + visited all the principal Tombs, Monuments, Vaults +c +c + among the rest was the Tomb of (Much talked about) Charlotte Canda, the youngLady who was persuaded by her adopted Father to attend  a Ball that was given on the Anniversary of her 17th birthday. She started for the place + was thrown from the carriage + died suddenly, on the night of February the 3rd 1845, there additional line are on the Tombstone.   So sinks from sight Eves golden Star,   Lost in the watery depth afar.   Yet still does the fair planet burn,   Not hopeless is our Charlottes urn.   In Gods own morn her orb will rise,   Once more - a star of Paradise.  This tomb is the finish in the cemetery + is said to have cost $30,000 The spot it the most beautiful one I ever seen + is well worth a visit there, I felt myself well paid for the time sent there. I also found among the rest the following Tombs, Vaults +c, Firemens Hill, Niblos Vault, Silas Wood, Witthaus, Kingsland, Valentine Mott M.D. B.B. Grinnell, Chaunceys, Pierpont, Captain Coreja etc. etc.    All thats beautiful in woman,    All we in her chature love,   All thats good in all that human,    Paved this gate to God above.  ^These words was on the Tomb of one of Niblos family
[Pg 69]  In the evening I attended the Academy of Medicine of N.Y. and heard the case of Dr Horace Green investigated, for using the Probang + Tube in the case of Saml. C. Whitney for Tubercles in the Lung, which resulted in death to the patient, so supposed, the house was crowded full + much fuling was shown on both sides, the patient was attended by Dr Beales untill he died + the Autopsy was made by Drs. Valentine Mott, his son Alex. B. Mott + Beales, wrote to Sister Em. + J.W.C. + Miss M.Y.  20 Day pleasant + still warm, was to Lectures in forenoon, in the afternoon I went down to Warren St. on N. River to see the Moses Taylor start out for Calafornia [sic], it was a beautiful sight, + a mournful scene at the same time.  21 Unpleasant with rain, in the evening went to Wallacks Theatre to hear + see played the Veteran or France + Algeria, it was splendid.  22 More pleasant + cool. Visited Bellevue Hospital.  23 Day pleasant + cool, in the morning heard Rev. G.A. Peltz preach, in the evening heard Rev. John McClintock D.D. Methodist, in the Academy of Music.  24 Day pleasant, in the evening heard Bertram + Mazeppa played.  25 Very pleasant + quite warm.  26 Day pleasant. Visited Bellevue Hospital.  27 PLeasant. In the afternoon I visited Blackwells Island in company with 5 other Students, we took a look at Hells Gate, which is a dangerous place for vessels at high tide, we then went through the Penitentiary, Work House, Lunatic Asylum + Syphilitic Hospital, where we seen disease in all its Stages, there are Alms Houses here +c, but we had no more time to visit, + so we returned home, at present there are on this Island over 4000 persons Male + female in the different Institutions, it is a beautiful place + is quite an addition to N. York, in the evening I went to see Dan. Rice + his horse + mules at Niblo's, I was well pleased with the entertainments.
[Pg 70]  28 Day unpleasant with rain.   wrote to D.W.B. + W.A.S. + A.G.W.  29 Still unpleasant, with a drizzling rain. Afternoon visited Bellevue Hospital, witnessed several amputations.  30 Sunday very pleasant, in the morning heard Rev. Chapin preach Text. 6 chap, 8th verse of Micah. Sermon was splendid, in the evening heard Rev. M.S. Hutton D.D. Dutch Reformed preach in the Academy of Music, he also preached an excellent Sermon.  31 Day very pleasant + warm.  __________________  February 1859  1 Day quite pleasant + warm. Visited Demilt Dispensary.  2 Day cool, night rain. Visited Eye Infirmary. Wrote to P.M.K. + E.B.C.  3 Day unpleasant with rain + hail.  wrote to Em. D.  4 Day cool + pleasant.  5 Pleasant. Visited Bellevue Hospital.  6 Sunday. Snowed hard all day, in the evening heard the Rev. Joel Parker D.D. Preach in the Academy of Music. Text 2nd chap. + 4th verse Romans, he is a fine + fluent speaker.  7 Day pleasant, sleighing fine.  8 Sleighing still good, + good use is being made of it.  9 Unpleasant with rain. Wm. Frick called to see me this morning from Lewisburg. I went with him up the Hudson River to Poughkeepsie 75 miles from New York, returned same day.  10 Cold but pleasant, concluded the go along home with Frick as the Lectures will soon close + I am tired. Left New York at 4 P.M. for Phila, arrived at the Washington House Chesnut St. at 9 P.M.  11 Pleasant + cold, called to see some of my friends.  12 Day pleasant left for Lewisburg at  past 7 A.M. arrived there at 5 P.M. found our folks all well + glad to see me home, my friends gave me a ^hearty welcome.  13 Sunday, went to church. Pleasant + cool, afternoon I went to Jos. Mussers + took dinner, along with Several of my friends.
[Pg 71]  14 Day cool + pleasant, in the evening I attended an oyster Supper at W, Moores. Court commenced to day.  15 Pleasant, attended a dinner party at Schreyers, in the evening heard the Rev. Thos. K. Bucher Lecture in Independent Hall. Subject Democracy, he is a fine speaker + gave general satisfaction. ^Miss Jane Gibson married to P. Hilgert Esqr. of Milton.  16 Unpleasant with rain, was at a dinner party at Hetzels.  17 Streets muddy, sun shining, took dinner at Vorses, in the Evening attended the Lutheran Festival in Independent Hall, had a pleasant time.  18 Unpleasant with rain, in the evening attended a large party at James S. Marchs had a pleasant time.  wrote to Dr. O.H.B.  19 Very muddy + more rain, took dinner at C.F. Hesss.  20 Sunday, rain in forenoon, afternoon warm + stormy. Baptists immersed 12 persons in the river, took dinner at Jas. C. McClures.  21 Very cold + windy. River rising very fast.  22 Day more pleasant in the evening attended a concert given by Helds C. Band.  23 Pleasant + very warm, a regular may morning.  24 Cold + windy, took dinner at T.G. Evans,  25 Snowing this morning, & continued untill after night, in the evening I attended a very fine party at F. Pollocks, enjoyed it very much.  26 Sleighing this morning quite good, gave it a trial in the afternoon.  27 Sunday. Snow melting very fast. Sleighing nearly all gone.  28 Day pleasant, roads very bad. Sleighing entirely all gone.
[Pg 72]  March. 1859  _________  1 Day pleasant + warm, a regular May day.  2 Very pleasant, sun quite warm. Baltimore M.E. Conference begins to day in Williamsport.  wrote to Ed.  3 Unpleasant + cold, with hail + snow, wrote to Kienan + Co for 2 Medical Journals + rent $3- for Dr. Wilson to N. York.  4 Unpleasant with rain. Commencement at the University Med. College N.Y. Mrs       Chamberlin died, aged 91 yrs, also a young Lady at DeNormandies  5 Day unpleasant.  6 Sunday very pleasant, buried Mrs. Chamberlin + Miss Foster at DeNormandies  7 Unpleasant with rain, at night it rained very hard, with thunder + lightning.  8 Still raining, roads very bad.  9 Day very pleasant. Sun quite warm, wrote to E.B.  10 Day still pleasant + warm.  11 Unpleasant with rain. Jno Smiths child died, in the evening attended a very fine party at Jas. F. Sinns/  12 Day very pleasant + warm, in the evening attended a pleasant party, up at P. Haughabaughs River rising very fast.  13 Sunday, pleasant + warm, in the forenoon heard the Rev. R. Ridgway preach in the Methodist Church, also in the afternoon heard him address the Society of Inquiry, at the Same place. Rafts are running quite shick. River is nearly bank full.  14 Unpleasant with rain, in the evening attended a very pleasant party a Francis Wilsons, had a lively time, through the night it stormed very hard.  15 Day pleasant again, with wind, at night quite cold. River very high, too much so for rafting, roads are very bad.  16 Day pleasant + warm  17 Very pleasant, roads drying off finely.  18 Election day, rained very hard all forenoon, at night it stormed very hard + rained, the roof of the west wing of the College blew off + was entirely destroyed, also quite a number of trees on the C. Hill. a son of Cyrus Browns died aged 19 yrs Clarkes Ferry Bridge blew down, + quite a number of houses + barns was unroofed through the country, trees + fences was blown down.
[Pg 73]  19 Still very cold + stormy, unpleasant, was present at the Post Mortem examination, on the body of young Brown, disease which caused his death was Fungus Haematodes of the right thigh, River very high.  20 Sunday. Storming very hard, continued blowing untill evening when it abated. River commenced falling.  21 Day pleasant, in the evening attended the Sen. Academic exhibition.  22 Unpleasant with rain, in the evening attended the Jun. Collegiate exhibition afterwards enjoyed a fine party at Forests given by the class.  23 Pleasant, attended the closing exercised at the Seminary, school closed to day, both at College + Seminary, in the afternoon a small party of us went out to Howards + spent the evening, pleasant time.  24 Unpleasant with rain, in the evening attended a very large party at Beavers, had very pleasant time.  25 Day pleasant + cool. Our choir sang for Randolphs Exhibition in the Church, afterwards partook of refreshments at Rs house, pleasant time  26 Pleasant. Town quite lively, in the evening attended a large + very pleasant party at Jos Greens.  27 Sunday. Very pleasant + warm. Mrs. Walters died.  28 Pleasant, sun shone very warm, in the afternoon, 6 couple of us took a ride to Mifflinburg, took supper + spent the evening along with the Lewistown party, who have been spending a week with us, we accompanied them this far on their way home. Dr Locks child died.  29 Rain + wind, quite unpleasant all day, buried Mrs. Walters + Lockes child.  30 Day pleasant, evening cool. People are moving their house hold effects.  31 Very ^un^pleasant. Stormed very hard all day + was quite cold. Town is all upside down, citizens are moving in all directions, look where you will + you can see bed steads, bedding, chairs, +c all on the go, wrote to Sister;s Em + Sarah; also to Gust.
[Pg 74]  April 1859  __________  1 Day very pleasant + warm. Moving still the rage in town, the weather is certainly favorable for it, wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Very pleasant + warm. John Pardoe died wrote to Bro. P. + T.P.H.  3 Sunday. Pleasant, night windy. Saml. Strawbridge retd from Calafornia [sic], buried John Pardoe.  4 Very windy + cold all day. Snow flying in the air wrote to C.H.B.  5 Still cold + windy, to day we had a heavy snow squall, old Jacob Mertz died, aged 78 yrs.  6 Cool + windy, this morning the ground was all covered with snow about one inch in depth, in a few hours the sun made way with it, wrote to Cor. Schirmer of N.Y.  7 Day cool + pleasant, buried Jacob Mertz. D.D. Kremer + wife went to Philadelphia.  8 Day pleasant + still cool. Prof. Helds child died.  9 Very pleasant, spent the evening at Jas. Mussers with our regular friends, had a splendid time. Wrote to D.W.B. + D.S.K.  10 Sunday, pleasant but cool, buried Helds child.  11 Unpleasant, rained quite hard all morning.  12 Day very pleasant + warm. Wrote to W.H.F. + M.P.K.  13 Pleasant + warm, evening lovely. River rising rapidly.  14 Rained very hard all morning.  15 Day pleasant + warm, attended a large party at Jos. Mussers, good time.  16 Very windy + cold, evening pleasant. D.S. Kremer + wife retd from Phia.  17 Sunday very pleasant.  18 Pleasant. Quite a number of new buildings under headway.  19 Cool + windy. Merchants are receiving their Spring Supplies.  20 Warm + pleasant.  21 Very warm, attended a wedding this morning at 7 A.M. Mr Wm. Wilson Cond. on Northern Central R.R. was married to Miss Sallie R. Biesel had a pleasant time. The Summer Sessions of the College + Seminary began to day, quite a large number in attendance.
[Pg 75]  22 Unpleasant with rain.  23 Rained + snowed hard all day, very unpleasant.  24 Sunday, windy all day. Mountains are covered with snow.  25 Day pleasant, but cool. wrote to Sister Em.  26 Unpleasant with rain. Brought Flavel Clingan Jr. home from Illinois a corpse.  27 Very unpleasant, rained nearly all day. Buried Flavel Clingan Jr. Thomas Wilson was married to Miss Lizzie Geddes. River high.  28 Pleasant + quite warm.  29 Very warm. Dr Wilsons child (Ella) died, aged 18 mos.  30 Still very warm. Buried Wilsons child.  _______________________  May. 1859  1 Sunday, very warm + pleasant. Trees are all in full bloom.  2 Very warm, wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Day very pleasant  4 Still warm, fixed up Cemetary Circle.  5 Warm + pleasant. Vegetation looking very fine.  6 Day pleasant, very warm.  7 Very warm + dusty. Ther. 85 above zero.  8 Sunday. Still very warm, rain would be acceptable.  9 Day pleasant + warm.  10 Rained very hard all day.  11 Day quite cold, I feel unwell to day.  12 Very warm + pleasant.  13 Still pleasant, + warm.  14 Day warm  15 Sunday. Morning cool, day pleasant.  16 Pleasant. Court commenced full attendance, wrote to Em.
[Pg 76]  17 PLeasant + cool, country looking splendid, light rain.  18 Cool, appearance of rain, court well attended, wrote to D.W.B.  19 Day pleasant. Jonathan Nesbit died.  20 Morning cool + pleasant, buried J. Nesbit.  21 Day pleasant. Court closed.  22 Sunday very warm. Uncle Wm. DeHaven died in Minersville ^after several weeks illness.  23 Pleasant. Started Trout Fishing, in company with 10 other persons, went up to Loyalsock Creek, encamped first night at Hunters Lake.  24 Warm, in the evening fished Double Run + a branch of the Loyalsock, caught some fine Trout, encamped at the Forks.  25 Warm. Fished down the creek + encamped on Ocdonian Creek, caught a large number of Trout + very fine ones.  26 Very warm, light shower in afternoon, encamped at Barbers Bridge caught the largest Trout I ever seen.  27 Warm. Fished in the morning, then started for home, a heavy storm came in us at Rogers Factory, we there stayed all night in the house, it rained very hard for several hours.  28 Left for Muncy + home, day cool, but pleasant, arrived at Home safe, + all in good spirits, feeling much improved in health, we all enjoyed ourselves very much + felt satisfied that we had a pleasant time, caught about 50 doz. Trout + any amt. of other Fish. Found all well at home.  29 Sunday. Warm + windy, a light rain at night.  30 Day pleasant but cool, wrote to Em.  31 Unpleasant, rained very hard all day + night.
[Pg 77]  June. 1859  1 Day cool + pleasant  2 Very warm + sultry, wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Windy, with rain, day unpleasant.  4 Very cold + windy  5 Sunday, cool, but pleasant, this morning we had a heavy frost. ^Considerable damage done to garden truck, conn +c.  6 Day very pleasant. 8 of us went Trout Fishing to White Deer Creek.  7 Pleasant + warm, returned from Fishing, water too low + cold. Caught about 180 Trout, had a very pleasant time, Sabbath School ^convention held.  8 Pleasant, still cool mornings + nights. Thos. Strawbridge was married to Mrs. E. Dale of Mechanicsburg.  9 Cold + windy.  10 Unpleasant + with rain, evening pleasant but cold, attended an evening party at P. Beavers, pleasant time.  11 Very pleasant. Another heavy frost, everything covered with a white coat, thick enough to write your name on the board walk.  12 Sunday. Pleasant + warm.  13 This morning J.W. Chamberlin, A.D. Hawn + myself started for Lewistown, in a carriage, accompanied by Miss Emma B. Hayes, Sallie Chamberlin + Jennie M. Beaver, we had a merry + pleasant drive, arrived there at 7 in the evening, where we found our friends ready to receive us + gave us a welcome reception, found all the friends well.  14 Day pleasant + warm. Party took dinner at Dr. Van Valzahs Tea at Judge Parkers. Spent the evening there, had a delightful time.  15 Pleasant; had a pleasant drive to Reedsville + Millroy, there was quite a large party of us, all passed off pleasantly.  16 Morning beautiful. Our friends made a large Pic Nic for our benefit, there was about 60 in number jumped aboard a large Canal Boat + went up the Juniata Canal to Dixons Grove, where we spent the day very pleasantly, + came back by Moonlight, it was decidedly a grand affair, all passed off finely - over
[Pg 78]  No accident, neither was there anything done to mar the pleasures of any, all sociable + agreeable, every one pleased.  17 Raining quite hard all morning, still we drove to Millory + spent the day with A.H. Hawns Uncle, pleasant time.  18 Pleasant, returned calls all morning. Spent the evening at Judge Parker's, another good time.  19 Sunday, in the morning heard Rev. Kepler preach in the Methodist Church, had a very good Sermon in the evening heard A.D. Hawn preach in the Presbyterian Church, he done very well indeed.  20 Rained hard all morning, took a drive in the afternoon, spent the evening at F.G. Franciscus' had another pleasant time, bid our friends good bye.  21 Morning bright + Cheerful, after saying good bye to all our kind friends, we left for home at 7 a.m. we arrived here at 9 P.M. came by the way of New Berlin found our friends all well. I must say, I was never more kindly treated in all my life, we was all sorry to part with our friends, + as cheerful as the morning was, there was a gloom or at least sorrowful countenances, when the time came to say farewell, it was a visit that will be long remembered by us all, they know how to entertain friends at Lewistown.  22 Pleasant + very warm, farmers are all busy making hay, reading goes a little dry to day, wrote to Mother + Dick P.  23 Very warm + pleasant. Town dull.  wrote to (D.W.B.) + A.H.F.  24 Pleasant, in the evening it rained + blew very hard. There was Rye cut ^this week -- Union Co. Kelly Twp.  25 Pleasant + very warm. Thrs. Wm. Myers died yesterday.  26 Sunday, warm, Dr T.H. Wilson. Those Howard + John Randolph was ordained as Elders of the Presbyterian Church in the evening.  27 Very warm, farmers still busy at their Hay. wrote to C.H.B. ^Ther. 90  28 Uncomfortably warm, but excellent Hay weather. Wheat is ripening very fast + fit to harvest, farmers are not through with their Hay. wrote to A.M.F.  29 Very warm + sultry. Ther. 92 1/2 in the shade early in the morning, a heavy wind + rain at night.  30 Morning cool, day pleasant. Flamams Byers was married to a Miss Fowler of Muncy.
[Pg 79]  1 Day very pleasant, some farmers near town are cutting wheat, it is splendid here + there a weevil to be found, wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Day pleasant + warm, rain in the evening with a heavy storm, it blew very hard, a portion of the roof on the Steam Grist Mill was blown off.  3 Rained hard nearly all day, with hail.  4 Pleasant, morning cool. Celebration at College Hill, in the morning. Town quiet. This day Oregon came in as a State, we now number 33 States.  5 Day pleasant + very warm.  6 Pleasant, this day the Presbyterian Sabbath School held a Pic Nic in Camerons Grove, there was nearly 300 persons present, we had a delightful time, all passed off pleasant.  7 Still very warm, many farmers are done harvesting.  8 Very warm + sultry. Town dull.  9 Still very warm + sultry. Business very dull.  10 Sunday, warm.  11 Warm + sultry, evenings pleasant.  12 Very warm. Ther. 94 in the shade. Son of A.K. Bells died aged 13 yrs.  13 Still very warm. Ther. 96 2/10 in the shade. Many Ther. was up to 100   14 Still warm + appearance of rain, there was new wheat hauled to Town ^+ sold weighed 61  15 This morning it is cloudy, towards noon we had a fine refreshing shower, it rained very hard the balance of the day. Wrote to J.D. & D.W.B. in the night, the Lightning struck D. Kauffmans barn + burned it to the ground, he lost all his wheat, + Hay which had just been put in.  16 Pleasant with showers. Danl. Ridenbaugh fell dead this morning in his own house.  17 Very warm + pleasant. Buried D. Ridenbaugh.  18 Pleasant + warm.  19 Still warm, with rain.  20 Morning cool + pleasant. Town quite lively.  21 Pleasant. Examinations commence at College + Seminary to day, quite a great many strangers have already arrived. F.A. Donehowers son was drowned in the River while bathing.
[Pg 80]  22 Pleasant + cool. Strangers still coming. Rain at night.  23 Very cool all day. Exercises at Seminary closed, full attendance.  24 Sunday warm + pleasant. Rev. T.F. Curtis preached before the Society of Inquiry in the afternoon, it was an elegant discourse + listened too [sic] attentively. Jer. C. Brown died, also Catharine D. Frain.  25 Day warm + pleasant. 4 Ladies graduated in the Seminary.  26 Pleasant. 5 young men graduated in the Theological department, in the evening Hon. A.G. Curtin delivered the address before the Societies.  27 Warm + pleasant. 5 young men graduated in the regular  course + 2 in the Partial or Scientific Course, in the evening I attended the Presidents Livee, + afterwards the Promenade Concert in Independent Hall. Exercised all passed of [sic] pleasantly. Town as usual crowded with Strangers.  28 Day pleasant + warm, a grand ridding out took place this morning look where you would + you could see Trunks + Strangers on the go. Henry Widensaul [Weidensaul] was married to Mary E. Ranck daughter of Mrs. Stock.  29 Pleasant + cool, had a very pleasant + large Pic Nic at Van Valzahs Mill, all young folks, upwards of 140 Ladies + gents present, all pleased.  30 Warm, quite a number of strangers left this morning. Recd a letter from Ed.  31 Sunday, very warm, wind at night. Jno. Hess child died.  ________________________  August. 1859  1 Warm, with rain, buried John Hess child, wrote to Bro. Ed. + R.C.P.  2 Day pleasant, with rain.  3 Warm + pleasant, with showers.  4 Pleasant, rain in evening.  5 Very warm Town dull.  6 Warm + sultry, wrote to D.W.B.  7 Sunday. Warm + pleasant  8 Still warm  9 Very Sultry, appearance of rain.
[Pg 81]  10 Very warm + pleasant, awful dusty.  11 Day pleasant. Six couple of us, went Fishing up Spencer Run, had a splendid time, passed camp meeting.  12 Cool, rained nearly all day, very much needed.  13 Day pleasant + Cool, was to Danville.  14 Very warm + comfortable, retd from Danville.  15 Pleasant with rain. Town dull.  16 Warm + sultry, evening cool.  17 Very warm + pleasant. Had a fine boat ride in the evening.  18 Warm + comfortable, attended a large Party at Dr. Hayes  19 Day cool + pleasant. English Camp Meeting began at Ranglers Woods.  20 Very warm. I attended a Harvest Home Dinner given at the Buffaloe House L.D. Brewer Pross. there was about 150 persons present, had a splendid time, all passed off well.  21 Sunday, was at Camp Meeting, a large audience present.  22 Day pleasant, very dusty. This afternoon Peter Newman came to Town for boards with two horses + wagon, + brought with him Thos. Pross + young Riam, the horse ran off + threw Pross against the Steam Grist Mill + broke in his skull, he died from his injuries he received about  an hour afterwards. I examined the wound + found the skull ^broken, the frontal bone ^was broken in several places, also the Nasal bone, + orbital plate, the brain was partly lost out. Mr Newman was very much bruised, also young Riam. In the evening I acted as Groomsman for Ezra Cuyler of Charleston S.C. who married Joanna Kline McFaddin of this place, there was three setts [sic] of waiters, had a pleasant time.  23 Very warm + dusty, helped to bury Thomas Pross, it rained very hard all evening.  24 This morning it rained very hard, + steady for several hours.  25 Day pleasant + warm. Christian Conference commenced.  26 Unpleasant with rain.  27 Very warm + pleasant. Delegate Election held in the afternoon.
[Pg 82]  28 Sunday. Pleasant + warm, in the evening the whole Heavens was illuminated, by the Northern Lights, it was a grand + beautiful sight.  29 Warm + pleasant. Republican Convention held in the Court House, had quite an exciting time. Large fine at night in Milton. Odd Fellows Hall burned down.  30 Day very cool, but pleasant, recd a letter from Ed, wrote to A.G.W.  31 Pleasant + warm, morning cool. I attended a large + Pleasant party at J.F. Sinns.  ____________________________  September. 1859.  _________  1 Very foggy this morning + cold.  2 Warm + blustry. Town dull, wrote to Bro. Edward.  3 Very pleasant + warm. Mrs Frick died aged 65 yrs.  4 Sunday, pleasant, buried Mrs. Frick.  5 Morning cool, appearance of rain. Commenced my Thesis.  6 Pleasant verd [sic] cold morning + evening.  7 Warm, rained a few minutes this morning.  8 Day pleasant. Streets very dusty.  9 Warm, + still dusty, never seen it so bad before, rain much needed. Mrs. Moran died at Thos. Pennys.  10 No rain yet + very warm, buried Mrs. Moran, rained very hard in the night.  11 Sunday, showers all day.  12 Warm + pleasant. Court commenced, full attendance. Judge Wilson is sick at home Judge Jordan presided.  13 Very pleasant, in the evening Hon John C. Kunkle addressed the Republican party in Independent Hall, on the political questions of the day, house was crowded full, he gave us a very interesting + pleasant address.  14 Very windy + cool all day.
[Pg 83]  15 Day pleasant, a party of 9 went fishing down the River on a flat, we had two tents on one end + a cooking stove on the other, we went in an independent way.  16 Commened raining, which interfered somewhat with our fishing. Mother returned from the West.  17 Still raining very hard, our party returned home, we caught between 3 + 400 fish, had a pleasant time.  18 Sunday, very pleasant day. River rising fast.  19 Day pleasant  + very warm. River falling.  20 Unpleasant with rain.   wrote to R.C.P.  21 Rained all day very hard.  22 Still raining. River coming up very fast.  23 Roads very muddy + raining, appearance of fair weather.  24 Morning pleasant, sun shining. Showers in the afternoon.  25 Sunday, warm + pleasant. River falling fast.  26 Day pleasant, there was about 150 persons went to the State Agricultural Fair, held at Phila.  27 Pleasant, very warm, with showers occasionally wrote to G.Y.  28  Warm, appearance of more rain.  29 Day pleasant + warm. Purinton + Wife arrived to day, on their way to Phila. for Medical Advice.  30 Pleasant, appearance of rain. Wrote to W.H.  ______________________  October 1st 1859  __________  1 Morning cool + cloudy. Wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Sunday, very warm + pleasant. McClures Negro Charlie died, over 90 yrs. Old.  3 Pleasant, morning quite cool.  4 Day very pleasant.  5 Warm, went to Milton fair, in the evening attended a party at Pollocks.  6 Pleasant, Agri Fair commenced full attendance.
[Pg 84]  7 Very pleasant + warm. Town crowded with people, visited the fair + found a fine display of Stock, Fruit, Vegetables, Agr. implements +c. Besides Thousands of people, in the evening made several calls + said good bye.  8 Pleasant but cloudy, started for Phila. to attend Medical Lectures at the University of Penna. Stopped at the Ashland House. Bro. Purinton + wife in company, rain at night.  9 Sunday, rained all day, + it is very cold + unpleasant.  10 Visited the University, heard Dr. Carson Lecture, day pleasant, moved to my boarding House North 9th St. wrote to Sister K.  11 Pleasant, day warm. Bro. Purinton + wife moved their boarding house 10 1529 Spruce St.  12 Warm + pleasant. To day at 10 a.m. Dr. Wash. S. Atlee + assistants removed an OVarian Tumor from Sister Purinton which weighed 8 pounds, the fluid weighed 27 pounds in all 35, the operation lasted  of an hour, she was under the influence of chloroform. I remained with her all afternoon + night, she rested well + is getting along finely, she bore it all so far with true womanly courage.  wrote to Sister K  13 Pleasant, sister is fuling quite comfortable this morning. I went to the University this morning + matriculated, in the afternoon visited Sister, found her sleeping + resting easy, spent the night with her, she rested well + is doing finely.  14 Warm + pleasant. Sisters, the regular Lectures for the winter Session commenced this morning, in the evening visited Sister, she is comfortable + doing well.  15 Pleasant but cool, Sister still improving, attended the clinics this morning. Seen Prof. Smith operate on a child for Lithotomy. Sister comfortable this evening.  16 Sunday, day pleasant, herd Dr. Wadsworth preach. Text 96th Psalm 6th Verse. I was not any too well pleased with him. Sister still doing remarkably well. wrote to Dr. T.H.W.-W.A.S.-D.W.B.-+ Sister K.
[Pg 85]  17 Day pleasant + warm, rain at night. Sister still improving.  18 Unpleasant with rain. Sister quite comfortable to day, removed the Sutures in the wound, healed up nicely.   wrote to Sister K.  received first No. of chronicle. Took out all my Tickets ^for the course. Cost me $105.00  19 Day cool + windy. Sister doing very well.  20 Rain early in the morning + stormy at night. Sister is still improving rapidly, sat up for the first time. In the forenoon I seen a Similar operation (Ovariotomy) performed upon Mrs. Graham of Westmoreland Co. Pa. by Dr. W.S. Atlee, the operation was entirely Successful. Patient bore up under it remarkably well, the Tumor was large + weighed with the fluid weighed 40 operation lasted over an hour.  21 Day pleasant + warm, in the evening I took my first lesson in operative surgery, under Dr. Bishop.  22 Pleasant. Mrs. Graham died this morning at 2 a.m. ^from exhaustion, her Liver was entirely gone. This morning Missus Purinton of Ill. Mallard of Geo. Elliott of Phila. + Myself visited Girard College, Samuel Hill + Mt. Vernon Cemeteries, and Fairmount Water Works. Spent the day very pleasantly.  23 Sunday. Morning pleasant + warm. Sister sat up in her chair nearly all day, is feeling well + cheerful. wrote to J.W.C. + Dr. J.H.W.  24 Day pleasant + cool.  wrote to Papa  25 Morning lovely, Sister still improving. She went to dinner herself to day, She is very cheerful indeed.  26 Cold + disagreeable. Snowed all afternoon + evening, about 4 in. in depth.  27 Moderating considerable, still the roofs of Houses are covered with Snow. Siter still improving, + walked around in the yard.  28 Very pleasant again. Sister made a call to day on Dr. Atlee.  29 Morning cool + pleasant. Sister + Bro. Purinton Started for Lewisburg by the Catawissa Rail Road. Dr. Atlee charged for the operation $Shh brought Dissecting case + Hospital Ticket at Penna. Hospital. Cost $Meh  30 Sunday, day cool, heard the REv. Cuthbert preach, Cor Broad + Arch in the morning, in the evening heard  the Rev. Wadsworth was better pleased.  31 Day pleasant, bought dissecting Ticket, cost $Meh. Wrote to J.C.W etc. A.D.H.  ___________________________________________
[Pg 86]  November 1859.  ________  1 Day very pleasant + warm, wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Very pleasant + warm, wrote to A.D.H. + D.W. Bland.  3 Still warm + pleasant. To day I witnessed Dr. Atlee operate again for an Ovarian Tumor, he removed it successful, the patient was a unmarried Lady 30 yrs. of age. She died 4 days after ^as Dr Atlee feared she would, it was of long standing.  4 Warm + comfortable.  wrote to Sister K.  5 Very warm, uncomfortably so, bought coat + vest.  wrote Doc. W. + J.W.C.  6 Sunday, day beautiful, felt unwell in the morning, was not at Church.  7 Still pleasant + warm. After Lectures went to the Athaneum and seen Paul Morphy the King chess player of the World, play with a Mr Thomas, as I did not understand the game well enough to become interested I remained but a short time.  8 Day pleasant + warm. Spent the evening in West Phila. at Mustins, had a pleasant time.  9 Warm, in the evening the German Soldiers, different Societies + citizens turned out in full parade, in honor of Schiller the German Author, it being his birthday, there was music, torch lights +c. I seen W. Robinson Wilson + wife to day on Chesnut St, they was married on the 3rd.  10 Day pleasant + warm, made several calls after Lecture.  11 Very comfortable, spent a pleasant evening at Mrs. Garbers in Spring Garden St.  12 Still pleasant, but warm + appearance of rain, wrote to Dr T.H.W.  13 Sunday, rained nearly all day + very windy, in the afternoon I went to Jaynes Hall + heard the Rev. H. Grattan Guinness from Dublin Ireland preach, his text was 1st Kings 18th chapter + 20th verse, he had a very attentive audience + delivered an excellent Sermon he was at one time a sailor, then a Medical Student + now a Minister of the Gospel + is still but a young man.  wrote to S.B.C. - W.A.S. - E.W. - Bro. Pa. + M.V-  14 Day cool but pleasant.  15 Pleasant but cool. The Cadets of Temperance Paraded the Streets to day + made a very respectable appearance. I commenced dissecting. I have a very fine subject + is in good condition, man.
[Pg 88]  December. 1859.  _________  1 Day very warm, as pleasant as in May, dissected at night. ^wrote to D.W.  2 Still very warm + sultry. To day was  a very exciting one in this city, prayer meetings was held in many of the colored churches (rather belonging to the colored people) + also in Several of the Halls by whites, all brought about for the benefit of John (or Ossawattamie) Brown + the Slaves in bondage, the Medical Students as a general thing became intoxicated, (those from the South,) because they gloried over old Browns execution the consequence was they behaved badly + many was arrested + taken to the Station house for disorderly conduct. Capt John Brown was hung at Charlestown Va. this day at 11+15 min. A.m. he suffered the penalty of the law, for attempting to liberate the Slaves of Virginia, he commenced his attack at Harpers Ferry with but twenty two men, expecting to find many assistants among the Slaves, he was beaten out + arrested taken to Jail + this day suffered the penalty of the law, for Treason, Murder and conspiracy.   wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Day very blustry + cold, rain in the morning, hail + snow at night. The remains of Capt. John Brown, passed through this city to day, accompanied by his wife + friends, there was a committee waited upon the delegation + escorted them to the Steamboat landing from the cars, dissected all forenoon.  4 Sunday, very unpleasant, with rain + snow all day + evening wrote to M.PK. M.A.S. ^M.P. + A.C.L.  5 Day still unpleasant with rain.  6 Still very disagreeable, raining all day, dissected at night. I attended ^a Quaker wedding in the church.  7 The rain still continues, left the boarding house of Mrs. Ovenshine this morning + moved to Mrs. Archambault No 21 North 11th St. in the evening I attended a large + enthusiastic Union meeting at Paynes Hall, it was filled inside + the crowd was ^so great, that they had to organize another meeting outside, both was kept up untill a very late hour, speeches were made by by [sic] Jos. R. Ingersoll, Josiah Randall, Wm. B. Rud, Henry M. Fuller + many other, al for the preservation of our glorious Union, and to allay the great excitement that is now going on between the North + South, from the hanging of traitor John Brown, the whole disturbance has undoubtable arose from a few crazy abolitionists, the hall was handsomely decorated with our country flags, whole the Portrait of the immortal Washington was hung over
[Pg 89]  The Presidents chair + Surrounded by the Motts of The Union of hearts, the Union of hands + the flag of our Union forever, it was a very interesting meeting indeed + one that showed the respect the law abiding citizens of the North has towards the rights of the South.  8 Day very cold, ice was very plenty this morning on the pavements and in the streets, we have winter now in full blast.  9 Still very cold + freezing hard.  wrote to W.K.  10 Day very cold + on the increase, dissected in the forenoon.  11 Sunday, more pleasant, but cold, in the forenoon heard the Rev. Crowell preach. South West Penn Square, form the 12th chapt + 24th verse of St. John, he delivered a very excellent discourse. Afternoon + evening I spent very pleasantly as S. Foxs ^wrote to W.H.  12 Day cold + storming, appearance of Snow.  13 More pleasant + milder, dissected in the evening.  14 Cold + stormy, it snowed quite hard all forenoon, in the evening I heard the Rev. E.H. Chapin of N.Y. Lecture in National Hall, Subject Modern Chivalry, house was crowded + the Lecture was delivered in one hour + twenty five min, he spoke in his usual pleasant mood + fully displayed his oratorical powers, the audience was attentive + well pleased,  wrote to M.V.  15 Day cool, in the evening I dissected,   wrote to D.W.B.  16 Pleasant + warm. There were four more of Capt. John Browns men hung at Charlestown Va. two negroes named Copeland + Green + two white men named Cook + Coppie, the former at 11 A.M. + the latter two at 2 P.M. there were less excitement here to day, than when Brown was hung.  17 Unpleasant with rain all day and night.  18 Sunday day beautiful + moderate, heard the Rev. H. Grattan Guinness preach, Text 6th chap. + 13 verse Revelation, house crowded, wrote to J.W.C + Mrs. P.  19 Day pleasant + cool. There is quit an excitement now at the Medical Colleges of this city, among the Southern Students, they are feeling very indignant at the Northerners, on account of the interest some of them have taken, in regard to John Brown + friends execution, they threaten to leave.  20 Unpleasant with rain, dissected at night, the Southern Students are still exhibiting their chivalry at regards leaving, by getting drunk +c. I wish there would about 200 leave, we would then be more comfortable and quiet.
[Pg 90]  21 Day Pleasant, finished dissecting to day + sent the Skeleton home. The Southern Students are beginning to see their folly + are more cool on the subject, still some of them intend leaving to night, many have backed out + more would like to do so, but have gone so far with their threats, that it would be shameful for them to remain, joy go with them, wrote to W.A.S.  22 Day very pleasant. Took tea at Mrs. Elliotts + then accompanied the Family to the Phila. Literary Institute, had a very pleasant time, there was quite a number of Southern Students left, about 150 in all, but only about 18 from our University, the ballance from the Jeffersons.  23 Day very cold, with a little snow. College is now quiet once more + we are having  very quiet class, this evening Prof. Smith gave me my first examination on operative Surgery. I missed nothing + done everything he asked in good surgical style, he complimented me very highly in my readiness +c.  24 Day very cold indeed, in the evening I treated myself to a treat at the Walnut St. Theatre, enjoyed an excellent laugh, witnessing the performances of Mr + Mrs Barney Williams, afterwards promenaded Chesnut St to see what was done on a Christmas eve in Phila. came to the conclusion that drunkenness was the order, so I went home.  25 Christman, very cold this morning I heard the Rev. Wadsworth preach an excellent discourse, about the birth of Jesus Christ, the afternoon + evening I spent with Miss R. Elliott + cousin of Wmsport, went with them to Willits Church. wrote to Sister Em.  26 Day lovely, city very gay, streets are crowded with people, had no Lectures to day, I made several calls through the day, the evening I spent pleasantly at Mrs. Elliotts.  27 Day cold but pleasant. Lectures commenced again.  wrote to A.D.H.  28 Cold + stormy, freezing very hard + making ice fast.  29 Still cold, in the evening Snow. I heard to night at Concert Hall the Oratories of the Messiah by Handel, performed by the Handel + Haydn Society of Phila, the Instrumental part was performed by the Germania Orchestra, the Singers numbered 200, the players of Instruments about 30 in number, it was a great treat indeed, I enjoyed it very much, the house was crowded + very attentive.
[Pg 91]  30 Day cold, but pleasant, there is good use being made of the snow that fell last evening. Sleighing is tolerable, in the evening Prof. Smith gave me my Second examination, in operative Surgery, he said he was satisfied with my knowledge of applying splints, bandages +c correctly.  31 Very cold, sleighing still the rage, Prof. Jos. Carson paid us a fine compliment at his last Lecture for 1859 to day, he said he could safely + justly say, that the present Medical Class was the largest, most attentive, + most respectable class of young men, that he ever had the pleasure of Lecturing too [sic], the same compliment was paid us a few a few days since by Prof. Geo. B. Wood, we can certainly feel proud, when we are thus highly complimented, coming as it does from such man. As this is the last day of good old 1859, I can not pass it by without saying to myself that I hope 1860 will be as good + kind to me as 59, I have enjoyed most excellent health, + so have all my family with but few exceptions. Still we are all spared. I have made quite a number of pleasant + good friends, my studies have not been interfered with, and I flatter myself that I am doing ^+have done remarkable well. So good bye old year, + to the new one I would say, may you be able to do for me, my friends + my country, more than the past one.
[Pg 92]  January. 1860  1 Sunday, very cold. Ther. 11 below zero, remained in the house nearly all day, in the evening heard Dr. Wadsworth preach an excellent Sermon, house was pretty well filled.  wrote to Sister P. Ed + M.U.P.  2 Day very cold, remained in the house nearly all day, there was no Lectures at college.  3 Still very cold, but moderating. Lecture were resumed to day. Prof. G.B. Wood M.D. made each member of the class a New Years present, it was a copy of all his introductory lecture + addresses, he gave away over 500 copies, it was certainly a very kind act in him to do so, + one that was highly appreciated by us all.  4 Moderating very fast, snowed hard all day, in the evening I heard the Rev. Peter Cartwright D.D. (known as the back-woodman from Kentucky) Lecture, it was nothing more than a history of his early days in the Ministry he commenced preaching in 1803, he was then 18 years of age, + a man of no education, he has always been on the Western frontier as a Methodist Preacher, he is now 75 yrs. old + is still in good health, he told us a great man anecdotes + kept the audience laughing nearly all the time, his dress was quite ancient + well worn.  5 Pleasant. Sleighing tolerable. Prof. Rogers gave notice to day to the graduating class to hand in their Thesis so I must go to work at mine.  6 Still moderating, sleighing nearly used up. Saml. H. Oring was married to ^Miss Maggie McFadden, Jn. 5th  7 Snow melting very fast, visited Blockley Hospital this forenoon, in the afternoon it rained very hard, streets covered with water,  8 Sunday, day warm + pleasant, went to Dr. Edwards church in the evening Cor. 18th + Arch St. Text 8th chap + 36th verse, Mark. wrote to W.A.S. + Papa.  9 Day pleasant over-head. To day there was quite an excitement here in the City, caused by the Death of Bishop Neuman [John Neumann, fourth Bishop of Philadelphia, 1852-1860] of the Catholic Church, (Roman) (who died from appoplexy on last Wednesday,) his remains was moved from one church to another, and all the Catholics turned out in full force, + marched in procession, they had the Military, Band Music + all their Societies, then were several thousand in the procession, I never seen as many Democrats marching, before at one time as on this occasion, both Irish + Dutch, h was buried last night, at 12 oclock.
[Pg 93]  10 Quite warm + very muddy, Snow + ice all gone.  11 Day unpleasant with rain + snow.   wrote to D.W.B.  12 Day more pleasant, walking very bad, visited the museum.  13 Unpleasant with snow at night, made two calls on friends.  14 Very disagreeable indeed, Snow turned into rain + the walking is very bad, streets and side walks covered with water.  15 Sunday, day very unpleasant with rain, walking very bad, remained in the house all day.  16 Pleasant + warm. One of our students Mr A.C. Wilson of Miss. died of Pneumonia, on Saturday last. wrote to P.M.K.  17 Day pleasant + warm, commenced operating on the dead subject.  18 Still pleasant. Chas. Hall married H.M. McClure at Lewisburg. Wrote to J.W.C.  19 Day pleasant. Dr. Leidy gave us a large party this evening, was visited by my friends J.W.C. + Wm. A.S.  20 Pleasant moderating very fast, spent the evening with my friends.  21 Very warm, spent the day with my friends +c.  22 Sunday, was to Wadsworths church, in the evening bid my friends good bye.  23 Pleasant and warm, spent the evening operating on the dead subject.  24 Still very pleasant, was operating on my subject at night.  25 Day very warm + comfortable, visited the museum.  26 Pleasant, a light snow in the evening, signed the certificate for Prof. G.B. Woods Portrait to day, + paid my dollar.   wrote to D.S.K.  27 Cool + pleasant, in the evening I heard Mad. Lola Montez (Countess of Landsfeld) Lecture in Musical Fund Hall, Subject Fashion, the Lecture was well written + well delivered, I had a curiosity to see the woman, but was somewhat disappointed in her beauty, the house was crowded.  28 Day cool + pleasant. I handed in my Thesis to the Dean of the Faculty, and along with it $30 for Graduating fee, + Diploma, my Subject was Chorea Sancti Viti.  29 Sunday, day warm + pleasant, went to Wadsworth church.  30 Day very warm + sultry.  31 Still warm, in the evening I visited Franlin[Franklin] Lodge No 134 A.Y.M. in the Masonic Temple, there was a grand visitation from the Grand Lodge officers, after that we had a fine banquet, in the Hall, it Snowed at night very hard.
[Pg 94]  February. 1860.  1 Very cold + stormy, a regular winter day, with several inches of snow, sleighing excellent. Seen an amputation of the Thigh at the Penna. Hospital, by Dr. Pease + a resection of the knee joint at the Jefferson Medical College, by Dr. Jos. Pancoast.  wrote to Bro. Ed.  2 Cold + regular winter weather, sleighing excellent. wrote to D.S.K. + M.E.V.  3 Day pleasant + moderating. I attended a very large + pleasant party at Mrs. H. Elliotts  4 Pleasant, sleighing nearly all gone.  5 Sunday, day cool + pleasant, rain in the evening, in the Morning I heard the Rev. John Chambers preach. Text 12th chap. + 24th Verse of St. John, it was a splendid Sermon, in the evening I heard the Rev. Crammond Kennedy (known as the boy preacher of N.Y.) preach an excellent discourse. Text 12th chap + 8th + 9th verses of St. Mark, in the Broad + Arch St. Church + after the sermon I witnessed a baptism by the Rev. Cuthbert.  6 Unpleasant + warm.  wrote to J.S.D. + J.W.C.  7 Day pleasant, the weather is very mild for this season of the year.  8  Very warm, walked over to Blockley Hospital + seen Dr. S. Gross operate for Stove, he removed the largest I ever seen. Dr. Morton the man the first brought forth Ether as an Anesthetic agent was there + administered the Ether to the patient.  9 Still warm + very pleasant, in the evening it stormed very hard.  10 Day cool, in the evening I attended Lectures at the College of Pharmacy.  11 Very cold + stormy with snow, bought a few books at Auction.  12 Day pleasant, went to Wadsworths church, heard the Rev. Dr. Scudder preach. Text 13th chap. + 30th verse of Numbers, he has been in India as a Missionary, he talked considerable about that country. Wrote to E.C.D. - M.P.K. + D.W.B.  13 Day warm + pleasant, the Continental Hotel was open for public inspection.  14 Pleasant + quite warm, cloudy in the evening.  15 Regular winter, it commenced snowing early this morning + continued snowing all day + evening, at  P.M. the depth was about 6 in. Wrote to W.A.S.  16 Day cool sleighing quite good. Thomas Mackey died at Lewisburg.  17 More snow, regular winter.  18 Snow this morning, then it turned to rain + at night snow again, walking very bad indeed, attended Thomas + Sons, book auction, bought some books.
[Pg 95]  19 Sunday, day cold + blustry went to Woodsworths church, a stranger preached, sleighing fine. wrote to Mrs. S.M.P.  20 Day unpleasant + walking very bad, streets completely impassable from snow, ice + mud.  21 Pleasant overhead, walking very bad.  wrote to J.M.B. + Co.  22 Day very unpleasant with snow + rain, the Military Paraded through the Streets.  23 Very pleasant to day.   24 Warm + pleasant, walking very good. Bro. Purinton arrived. ^Prof. Sidy delivered his Valedictory to the class.  25 Day very pleasant + warm. Bro. Pu. + myself went to Sam. Cowells Concert.  26 Sunday. Very pleasant +warm. Dined at the Girard House with Bro. Purinton in the evening I heard the Rev. Abel C. Thomas Lecture. Subject Satan + Christ. I was not favorable impressed with the speaker or his remarks.  27 Day warm + pleasant.  28 Very warm. To day Profs Rogers, Smith + Carson delivered their Valedictorys to to the class, they were all very able productions, and was received with much feeling, they all assured us, that they never before had so much respect for a class, as the present one.  29 Day very pleasant + warm. Prof. Geo. B. Wood delivered his Valedictory + farewell address to the Med. Class, the Hall was crowded to overflowing this he said was his last Lecture that he ever expected to deliver to a Mad. Class, in the course of his Lecture he complimented the class very highly + said the present one was the best + most respectable class he ever had the pleasure of addressing, he was very much affected at closing his connection with the University, he has been a Teacher of Medicine in the Univ. for 25 years, + a Teacher in the College of Pharmacy for 15 years, making 40 years in all, he is now 63 years of age, his reasons for quiting [sic] is that he may travel through Europe etc. for a few years. In the afternoon Profs Hodge + Jackson gave us their Valedictorys in which they gave us encouragement for our future labours in the profession, they also complimented us very highly for good behaviour + regular attendance. Lectures closed to day. Examination commence to morrow.
[Pg 96]  March. 1860  ________  1 Day very pleasant + quite warm. Examinations commenced, I was examined before Prof. Saml. Jackson in the evening on the Institutes of Medicine. I miss but two questions, it was Satisfactory.  2 Still pleasant, Prof. H.H. SMith examined me on Surgery, I missed no questions, he was very well satisfied.  3 Warm + Cloudy with rain. Rrof. Jos. Lindy examined me on Anatomy, I missed no questions, he was also satisfied. wrote to Dr. W.  4 Sunday pleasant but windy, heard the Rev. Wadsworth preach an excellent sermon in the evening.  5 Day very pleasant + warm. This morning Prof. R.E. Rogers examined me on Chemistry.I missed one question, he appeared perfectly satisfied, I then went before Prof. Jos. Carson, when he gave me an examination on Materia Medica, I missed one question with him, he was very well satisfied, in the evening I heard the Buckley Minstrels.  6 Day beautiful, no examination to day, as I had taken two yesterday.  7 Day unpleasant with rain, Prof. Hugh S. Hodge examined me in Obstetrics. I missed one question before him, he was very well pleased with my examination.  8 Still raining all day, in the evening Prof. Geo. B. Wood examined me in the Theory + Practice of Medicine, I missed two questions before him, which displeased him, he had me very much confused + excited, however I passed a satisfactory examination, + before I left he assured me he was well satisfied + complimented me very highly, this ends the examinations + I feel very much relieved.  9 Day cool but pleasant, the balloting took place at the College for the Candidates for graduation, it was reported that quite a number were requested to withdraw their Thesis and a number more were thrown, but it is all hearsay.  10 This morning there were ice in the Streets, + it is still quite cold at 12 M, we all received our notices for commencement, where we will receive our Degree of Doctor of Medicine, which will take place on Thursday next, there were quite a number rejected. I seen Dr. Pease of the Penna. Hospital operate very successfully for strangulated Inguinal Hernia.
[Pg 97]  11 Day very pleasant. In the morning I heard the Rev. Dr. Boardman preach a most excellent Sermon, in the afternoon I went to the St. Augustine Church (Catholic) + heard most beautiful music.  12 Day unpleasant with rain. I attended the Jefferson Medical Commencement, they had 170 graduates, my chum George Yeoman was one of the ^number.  13 Day very pleasant but cold. In the evening I heard the Handel + Haydn Society Sing the Orations of Judas Maccabaeus (compd in 1746) (by Handel) at Musical Fund Hall. It was a brilliant affair + well performed.  14 Day cool but pleasant. Spent the evening at Robt. Hayes had a pleasant time.  15 Day very warm + lovely, at 10 A.M. the Graduates assembled at the University, when one of the class present to the Trustees of the University the portrait that we had painted of Prof. Geo. B. Wood M.D. to be hung in the Wistar + Horner Museum, it was received by one of their number in a neat address to the class, when afterwards Prof. Wood gave us a neat speech + wholesome advice + finally bid us farewell, his heart was so full, that it was difficult for him to talk, the Amphitheatre was crowded, and it was very quiet + solemn, we then formed in procession + marched to the Musical Fund Hall, where the Degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon 173 graduates, there was 53 of us from Penna. the ballance from other States + Countries, the house was jammed fully, thousands went away unable to gain admission. After the Degrees was conferred by the Vice Provost of the Institution (John F. Frazer L.L.D.) Prof. Carson delivered the Valedictory address to the graduates, it was a substantial + well timed address. This was the largest, most respectable + best class that ever the University turned out, so said our Professors + Trustees, in the evening we had two parties given to us graduates by Profs Rogers + Wood we had a splendid time + plenty of fun.  The Professors of the University Medical Department was as follows-  Samuel Jackson M.D. Prof. of the Inst. of Medicine. Geo. B. Wood M.D.S.S.S. Prof. of Theory + Practice of Medicine. Hugh S. Hodge M.D. Prof. of Obstetrics + Dis. Women + Child. Joseph Carson M.D. Prof. of Materia Medica + Pharmacy. Robert E. Rogers M.D. Prof. of Chemistry. Joseph Seidy M.D. Prof. of Anatomy. Henry H. Smith M.D. Prof. of Surgery. Wm. Hunt M.D. Demonstrator of Anatomy. (wrote to Dr. T.H.W.
[Pg 98]  16 Day very pleasant. Visited quite a number of my friends + said good bye.  17 Very warm, called on some friends, left Phila. at  past 3 P.M. + arrived at Reading in the evening. Called to see my friend C. Wheeler.  18 Sunday, pleasant, went to Church, heard the Rev. Richards preach, took Tea with friend Wheeler.  19 Day cool with rain, left Reading at 10  a.m. went to Harrisburg for dinner, left there and arrived at home at 5 p.m. found all well and glad to see me.  20 Quite cold + stormy, called on some friends.  21 Still blustry + cold, in the evening I attended a pleasant party at Jas. C. McClures, we had a delightful time. Seen many old friends.  22 Cold + disagreeable, with Snow.  23 Still unpleasant + freezing.  24 More pleasant, but still cold.  25 Sunday. Cool but pleasant, went to church morning + evening.  26 Day more pleasant. Still blustry, in the evening attended exercises ^of the Senior Academie.   27 Pleasant, but cool, attended exercises at Seminary.  28 Day warm, exercised closed at Seminary + University.  29 Very warm, went to Mifflinburg, in the evening attended a large + pleasant party given by Geo. Shorkley at his brothers.  30 Day very pleasant + quite warm.  31 Day uncomfortable.
[Pg 99]  April. 1860  _______  1 Sunday. Unpleasant with rain.  2 Day cool, with more rain.  3 Still cool + very windy  4 Unpleasant with rain, Mother went to the Country.  5 Cool + pleasant, with wind, went to a trout fishing.  6 More pleasant, fishing rather poor, returned home.  7 Day quite pleasant + warm.  8 Sunday. Easter, rained quite hard. Visited Jos. Mussers for the last time, as he tears down the homestead this week.  9 Still more rain. (11th wrote to Geo. P. Em. C.D. + S.S.C.-)  10 Very cold + unpleasant. River rising very fast.  11 Still cold, with rain, quite a quantity of rafts going down.  12 Cold + unpleasant.  13 Rain + cold.  14 Snowed + stormed, with rain all forenoon.  15 Sunday, walking bad.  16 More pleasant.  17 Pleasant + warm.  wrote to Bro. Ed.  18 Pleasant + warm  18 Quite warm, in the evening heard Horace Greeley of New York Lecture in Independent Hall. Subject Charisteristics [sic] of Great Men, it was a fine production + a good audience.  19 Pleasant but cool, in the evening went to Milton to hear Horace Greeley LEcture there. Subject his travels across the plains, from the Mississippi Valley to Calafornia [sic], the Lecture was good + very amusing.  20 More rain.  21 Snow + rain  22 Sunday, rain all day.  23 Cold + unpleasant. Special Court commenced.  24 Day disagreeable, wind + cold.
[Pg 100]  25 Snowed very hard nearly all day.  26 Very cold.  27 Day pleasant + warm/  28 Quite warm. Court adjourned.  29 Sunday  30 Day pleasant + warm.    May. 1860  _______  1 Day pleasant + warm.  2 Very warm.  3  4 Warm, wrote for drugs +c.  5   6 Sunday warm. Betsy Morton was buried.  7   8 Rain.  9 Raining very hard. River rising very fast.  10 Still raining. River Bank full of water, the Williamsport + Pine Creek Booms gave way and all the logs therein floated out. Some 180 thousand of them, the loss was estimated at about one million 400 thousand dollars, there were about 5000 caught at this place, the River was literally full of lugs for a whole day.  11 River still rising, logs + drift quit running.  12 River falling  13 Day pleasant. Sunday  14 Pleasant. Court Commenced  15 Day warm. My Drugs came safe to hand, rented Schreyers Office, took possession to day. Rent $25~ a year.
[Pg 101]  16 Very warm. Rafts running pretty thick. Chicago Republican ^Convention  17 Warm + pleasant. River still falling.  wrote to D.W.B.  18 Day very fine, this evening we heard by Telegraph that Abram Lincoln of Illinois recd the nomination for President of the U.S. on the 3rd ballot, at Chicago, by the Republicans, a very good selection + a very able and honest man, I am well pleased and hope + pray he will be elected.  19 Day cool. Court adjourned, to day a dispatch that Ex-Gov. Hamlin of Maine red the nomination for Vice Pres. of the U.S. another good man. May success attend us this fall election, we will then have once more a respectable President + an honor to our Country, there was a ratification meeting held in the evening at Independent Hall, where the Chicago Platform was adopted, a Republican Club formed. Speeches were made +c.  20 Sunday. Day pleasant + warm  21 Cold + disagreeable with rain. Baker family sang to night.  22 Day unpleasant with rain, attended a woman in labor, all passed off well + doing finely.  23 Day pleasant + warm. Patient doing well.  24 Very warm. Lewis Palmer died.  25 Still warm, appearance of rain.  26 Rained very hard nearly all day. Buried Lewis Palmer with Masonic Honors, funeral quite large.  27 Sunday. Very pleasant. Wm. Dreisbach was married to Miss. Carrie M. Ammons, in the Methodist E. Church, Miss. Rosa Schaffle Bridesmaid + Theo. S. Christ Groomsman, had quite a pleasant time.  28 Very warm, accompanied the wedding party to the Depot.  29 Day warm + pleasant.  30 Day pleasant, with rain.  31 Very warm, went to Ellic Gundys + helped to raise his barn.
[Pg 102]  June. 1860  _______  1 Day pleasant + warm. (it was very amusing + good  2 Very warm, heard Park Benjamin Lecture, Subject Matrimony  3 Sunday very pleasant, + quite warm John Shrack Esqr. died.  4 Warm, with a heavy storm in the afternoon. Started Trout Fishing, with 7 in the arty up Muncy Creek, in the evening Park Benjamin Lectured again, Subject Characters of American People.  5 Rained quite hard caught a great many Trout.  6 Day fine, trout none too plenty, caught 822 Trout.  7 Day cool, returned home from fishing.  8 Still cool, with rain + hail.  wrote to Sister Em.  9 Day very cold, a heavy storm at night.  10 Sunday very stormy + cool. An Infant Son of D.S. + M.P. Kremer died this morning at 2 a.m. aged 16 hours, buried him at 6 P.M.  11 Day pleasant, I assisted this morning Drs. Wilson, Thornton + others to remove an adipose tumor from the Shoulder of Mrs. Searles, weighing 8 pounds, patient is doing well. Wrote to M.S.P. + D.W.B.  12 Day very warm.  13 Very warm + dusty.  14 Day very warm + sultry.  15 Very warm in forenoon, heavy rain in the evening.  16 Day pleasant with rain.  17 Sunday, very warm + sultry.  18 Day pleasant + warm with rain.  19 Forenoon pleasant, afternoon had a heavy hail storm in town + over the River, it cut down corn, clover, wheat, Fruit, +c in many places, in others no damage done; hail fell by the bushel + many as large as walnuts, in the evening attended a pleasant party at Wm. Naples.  20 Day cool + cloudy with rain.  21 Still cold, business dull.  22 Day pleasant + warm.
[Pg 103]  23 Day cool + pleasant, went to Muncy, pleasant time.  24 Sunday, very warm  25 Warm. Started trout fishing, 4 of a party.  26 Pleasant. Fished on Elk Creek, stopped at Snells.  27 Very warm + pleasant, visited the falls on Elk Creek, they are beautiful, water falls about 40 feet.  28 Still warm, quit trout fishing, was very successful, caught 685 trout, 3 of us, in fishing parts of 3 days.  29 Warm with rain, returned home, well pleased with the trip.  30 Very hot + sultry. Japanese Embassy, 70 in number, Sailed this afternoon from New York aboard the U.S.S. Niagra for Japan, to go home by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.  July. 1860.  1 Sunday, rained very hard in the morning, afternoon pleasant + warm. David Miller died.  2 Very warm, appearance of rain, wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Day pleasant + warm.  4 Day very warm + comfortable. Citizens + Students had a procession + marched to Commencement Hall, where they listened to an Oration + Poem, in the evening we had a small party of young folks together at an ice cream party + afterwards fireworks, had a pleasant time + all enjoyed it very much.  5 Pleasant, evening cool. Farmers Harvesting.  6 Cool + pleasant. Attended the Presbyterian S. School Pic-Nic, had a very agreeable time all day.  7 Warm. Baptists held their S. School Pic-Nic, did not attend.  8 Sunday very pleasant, a shower in the evening.  9 Day very warm. Harvesting in full blast, grain is very good.  10 Day pleasant, + warm.
[Pg 105] [sic]  11 Warm. Farmers Hauling in grain.  12 Cool, but pleasant. Town dull.  13 Very warm, nights + mornings cool.  14 Warm + sultry.  15 Sunday. Very warm + dusty.  16 Day pleasant + warm.  17 Very warm + dusty. Farmers nearby all done with their harvest.  18 Still warm, partial eclipse of the sun, visible at 7  a.m. untill 9  a.m. rain in the afternoon + night.  19 Very warm + sultry. Exercises commenced at College + Seminary  20 Very hot. Louisa Wilson died, aged 32 yrs.  21 Warm with a light rain. Buried Miss Wilson.  22 Sunday. Very warm, in the morning heard Rev. J. Wheaton Smith preach an excellent Sermon. Afternoon heard Rev. Whitehead deliver an address before the Society of Inquiry, evening heard Rev. Dr Sampson preach, all able discourses.  23 Pleasant. 11 young Ladies graduated in the Fem. Sem. in the evening heard Rev. J. Hyatt Smith deliver an Oration before the Societys, Subject Manfulness, it was very good. Town crowded with people.  24 Warm. 6 address were delivered by the Theological class, evening Hayes + Fried, wee Orator + Poet for the Alumni  25 Very warm, regular commencement. 7 young men graduated. Exercise all passed off pleasantly  26 Pleasant. Strangers + students leaving, rain at night. Christian V. Gundy was married to Carrie Eicholtz.  27 Very pleasant, had a large Pic-Nic about 4 miles from town, numbering about 160 persons, had a very good time, all passed off pleasantly.  28 Day pleasant + warm  29 Sunday, rained hard nearly all day.  30 Very warm + sultry. Mrs. J. Housel died aged 65 years  31 Cool + pleasant. James P. Ross died, aged 52 yrs.
[Pg 106]  August. 1860.  _____________  1 Day cool + pleasant, buried Jos. P. Ross.  wrote to Ed.  2 Pleasant + warm. 24 of our young Ladies + Gents, went for berries up B. V. Narrows.  3 Cool with rain, party returned home, we had a pleasant time + gathered 9 Bus. of Whortleberries. Methodist S.S. held their annual Pic-Nic in Camerons Grove.  4 Still cool, with rain. Delegate election held to day by the Republicans.  5 Sunday, very warm + sultry.  6 Very warm. Republican convention held, + a good list of candidate nominated, all passed off harmoniously wrote to D.W.B. another meteor passed over this place at  past 7 P.M.  7 Very warm. 7 of us went for berries up B. F. Narrows.  8 Pleasant, returned with plenty of berries from the Narrows  9 Still warm, about 40 of us went to Trevorton to witness + assist in Laying the corner stone of the 1st Baptist Church. Our Sacred Music Association done the singing.  10 More pleasant, about 20 of us went into the mines this morning, we had a delightful time. Ladies + gents, all well pleased, returned home in the afternoon.  11 Pleasant + comfortable.  12 Sunday, cool, with rain.  13 Rained all day. There was a church meeting held this evening in the Presbyterian church, to take action (the Rev. Jacob Kerr formerly of Baltimore) by a number of gentlemen, who have been insulted by him at different times, both in and out of the pulpit, and for meddling with any + every party or excursion that has been gotten up in this place for last two years (since his residence in the place) he felt very much hurt at the serenade, he therefore put the whole thing into the church, is why the meeting was called, the result of the meeting was to pass a resolution + addressing the Serenade to apologize to him (Mr. Kerr) which will be hereafter done I suppose - not now, sure.
[Pg 107]  14 Day very cool, but pleasant.  15 Day pleasant + warm. Morning + evening cool.  16 Very warm.  17 Day pleasant + comfortable  18 Warm with rain. Montgomery Hunter died.  19 Sunday. Morning cool, day warm.  20 Warm + pleasant.  21 Day sultry, with showers.  wrote to D.W.B.  22 Very warm with rain.  23 Day warm + sultry.  24 Rain in the evening. Formed a Wide Awake Club this evening + enrolled 148 members, received our uniforms. Consisting of an oil cloth cape, cap, Lantern + pole with a flag containing the names of Lincoln, Hamlin + Curtin. I was elected Lieutenant of the Company.  25 Day cool with rain, evening pleasant. Wide Awake turned out in full uniform + paraded the Streets, made a fine appearance.  26 Sunday, pleasant + warm.  27 Pleasant, evening cool.  28 Appearance of rain, cool + comfortable.  29 Day cool + pleasant.  30 Warm, in the evening our Wide Awakes visited Milton, we had a pleasant time.  31 Still pleasant + cool.
[Pg 108]  September. 1860  1 Saturday pleasant + warm. Wide Awake club attended a large mass meeting in Kelly township, in the evening.  2 Sunday, warm + pleasant.   wrote to Ed.  3 Day very warm. Town quite dull.  4 Still warm + sultry.  5 More cool + pleasant, a fine shower in the evening.  6 Pleasant, heavy fog in the morning.  7 Day cloudy, went hunting for squirrels +c, pleasant time.  8 Town dull, rained quite hard, very stormy all day,  9 Sunday. Pleasant + warm.  10 Day cool + pleasant.  11 Cloudy all day. Charles Dunkle was married to Miss Mary Walls. Wide Awakes went to Smoketown to raise a Lincoln pole, attended a pleasant party at Rev. P.B. Marris.  12 Day cool. Mrs Knittle died aged 74.  wrote to M.S.P.  13 Pleasant, grand Mass meeting at Mifflinburg, in favor of Lincoln, Hamlin, Curtin +c. in in the evening our Wide Awakes went up + met there the Winfield Wide Awakes, we a pleasant time.   Cowan Esqr of Westmoreland Co. Spoke +c  14 Day pleasant + cool.  15 Windy all day. Northern lights beautiful.  16 Sunday. Day pleasant + cool.  17 Rain in the morning. Court commenced  wrote to A.D.H.  18 Pleasant + warm, in the evening we had a torch light parade of Wide Awakes, numbering over 300 in Uniform. Consisting of the Milton, Winfield, + Lewisburg clubs. Ex. Gov. Pollock + W.C. Lawson Esqr addressed us at the Buffaloe House, there were also a large turn out of citizens, at the same time the Ladies of Lewisburg presented our Wide Awake Club with a splendid flag + wreath made by their own hands, all passed off pleasantly, wrote to D.W.B.
[Pg 109]  19 Day warm + pleasant. Court still in Session.  20 Unpleasant with rain, in the evening about 50 of our Wide Awakes visited Muncy + attended a torch light parade, had a pleasant time, retd same night. Sem. + College Schools comcd.  21 Day pleasant + warm.  22 Town is crowded again with new goods, business looking up.  23 Sunday, pleasant + warm. George Reitmyer died aged 70 yrs.   24 Day warm, buried Geo. Reitmyer, in the evening our Wide Awake Club visited Milton + attended a mass meeting there, pleasant time.  25 Day cool + windy. Wide Awakes went to White Deer + attended a mass meeting, large meeting.  26 Day moderate, but windy.  27 Still cool, town brisk in way of Merchandizing.  28 Day pleasant, but cool.  29 Very cold + disagreeable.  30 Sunday, cold + cloudy.      Albert Edward, Prince of Wales + heir apparent to the Throne of England, is now visiting in this country under the title of Baron Renfew, + seeing the sights, he is accompanied by the Duke of New Castle + others, there is considerable excitement wherever he goes to see what a Prince looks like +c.
[Pg 110]  October. 1860.  1 Day very cold + disagreeable, with rain.  2 Pleasant + warm.  3 Day warm + pleasant, wrote to Bro. Ed. + Sister Em.  4 Day unpleasant with rain. Agricultural Fair opened to day, in the evening Our Wide Awake Club went to Williamsport + attended their Mass Meeting, had a large turn out + good time.  5 Day beautiful, Fair largely attended, a perfect success, in the Afternoon the Republican Mass Meeting wa held, when the Hon. Anson Burlingame of Mass. + Thomas C. Cochran of York addressed the meeting, the speeches were powerful + able ones, in the evening we re-assembled when Hon. Jno. W. Killinger ^of Lebanon + Burlingame, spoke, the crowd was highly entertained + listened attentively, it was supposed by many, that there were 5000 people on the ground, after the speaking was over the Wide Awakes paraded, some 500 strong, from Williamsport, Muncy, Milton, Winfield + Lewisburg all passed off well + all highly pleased.  6 Day cool, Fair well attended. Democrats held their Mass Meeting, rather a slim turn out. Fair closed.  7 Sunday. Day pleasant, rained very hard at night.  8 Day cool + unpleasant, with rain.  9 Cold. Election day, all passed off pleasantly, in the two wards we polled 566 votes. Republican maj. for Governor 243 for Andrew G. Curtin in the borough, the County gave 805 maj. for Curtin, by the 12 at night we knew Curtin was elected in the State.  10 Day very pleasant, news still favorable + increasing for Curtin.  11 Day cool with rain, very disagreeable.  12 Pleasant + warm, attended Milton Agr. Fair.  13 Pleasant. Town lively.
[Pg 05]    Ammons Hall, Lewisburg Feb. 17th 1857    The second regular quarterly meeting of the Lewisburg Republican Association was held this evening. Meeting was called to order by the President. The Hon. G.W. Scofield of Warren Co. Pa. being present was introduced to the audience by the Pres. The Speaker addressed the audience in a plain and substantial speech of nearly two hours in length, good order and attention was paid him, evidence of their being interested in the address, he spoke at some length on the Slavery question, also on the purchase of Cuba, which would give the Slave power 14 Representative, 4 in the Senate of the U.S. and 10 members in the House, it being already divided into East + West Cuba, making two States.  The Hall was filled to overflowing, many went away unable to gain admission.  The thanks of the meeting was reddily [sic] tendered to the Speaker for his very able and eloquent address.  On motion the meeting adjourned.       Theo. S. Christ. Sec.
[Pg 04]  Rule 5th No profane language to be used under the penalty of immediate expulsion from the rom.  6th  Visitors will have the kindness to return books, and papers to their proper places.     The Committee would reccommend [sic] the appropriation of one evening of each week to the discussion of Political subjects in the room.      Jacob H. Brown   Committee  Charles S. Crites      Wm. Van Gezer     By request of the President Samuel Weirick Esqr. made some appropriate remarks, followed by O.N. Worden, who proposed the following resolution, which after being debated by Messrs Slifer, Worden, Weirick and Palmer was adopted.   Resolved That we recommend to our friends in the surrounding Counties, this winter, to form associations for the dissemination of information that every portion of our country may be prepared for the coming and inevitable contests between Slavery and Freedom.  On motion the meeting adjourned.     John Barnes      Sec. protem
[Pg 03]    Ammons Hall Lewisburg Dec. 16th 1856.    The regular quarterly meeting of the Lewisburg Republican Association was held this evening.  President called the meeting to order, and on motion of O.N. Worden a committee of five was appointed to draft a petition to Congress, praying them to admit Kansas as a free state.   The following persons are members of the comittee [sic], O.N. Worden, Eli Slifer, J.W. Pennington, Geo. R. Bliss and Griggs Marsh.   A report from the Committee on rules for the regulation of the reading room was received read and adopted.  The following are the Rules,   Visitors will have the kindness to observe the following rules.  Rule 1st. No smoking or spitting on the floor.  2d  No conversations to disturb or among persons in the room.  3d  No person shall abstract, destroy, mutilate, or injure, any books, papers, or other property, belonging to the room, under the penalty of not less than one, nor more than ten dollars.  4th  Books, Papers +c, may be loomed by permission of the President.
[Pg 02]  On motion and agreed, that the Officers should enter into a lease with Alex. Ammons for the Security of the Reading Room for one Year.  On motion + agreed, that the Corresponding Secretary should write to Messrs Samuel Aaron + C.C. Burley, and invite them to deliver an address to our association as soon as convenient.  Meeting passed ^off pleasantly + was well attended, considering the bad walking + wet evening.    The following resolutions were adopted: Resolved that the Morning Time, a daily penny paper of Philadelphia, giving the latest news of all kinds necessary deserves, on account of its business as well as political character, the generous support of the friends of freedom, in this and other States.    Resolved that a cheap, weekly paper, for general circulation - devoted exclusively to Republicanism - is among the agencies now required for the furtherance of our cause the concentration of our strength at each approaching Election.     On motion adjourned     Theo. S. Christ Sec.
[Pg 01]   Agreeable to an adjourned meeting of the Republican Citizens of Lewisburg, held at Ammons Hall on the evening of the 21st Nov. 1856, the Constitution was read and adopted as framed by Geo. R. Bliss, James Aiken, Wm. Van Gezer, O.N. Worden + Dennis Phillips. Committee appointed to frame said constitution.  After which the following named persons were elected to fill the different offices for the ensuing year.   President    Eli Slifer        William Frick.  N. Ward   Vice President   Dennis Phillips          Elisha C. Marsh.  S. Ward        William Wilson     Corresponding Secretary  O.N. Worden   Recording Secretary  Theo. S. Christ   Treasurer    William Moore     On motion and agreed a committee of Three was appointed to make By-Laws for regulating reading Reading Room. Sad Com: Consisted of C.S. Crites, J.H. Brown + Wm. Van Gezer.     On motion and agreed a committee of Six was appointed to circulate to Constitution and procure signatures to the same, said Com: John Chalfant, Daniel Shaffer, Joel C. Kelly, Jas. Gibson, James Christie + John Nesbit Jr.
[Pg 111]  October. Continued  14 Sunday. Cold + disagreeable with rain. James Hutchison aged 43 years died, after an illness of several weeks.  15 Pleasant, buried Mr. Hutchison.  wrote to Dr B  16 Warm + comfortable, town dull.  17 Day unpleasant with rain. Miss Alice Casey died. Wrote to M.  18 Pleasant, business dull, attended a pleasant party at J. F. Simms.  19 Day unpleasant with rain. Wide Awakes turned out + recieved the Winfield Club, who visited us on horseback, had a fine parade.  20 Rained all day + evening, attended a Republican Supper in the evening at the Buffaloe House, had a pleasant time.  21 Sunday, more rain. River very high, drift running.  22 Day pleasant + quite warm, water falling in the River, the Prince of Wales + suite left for England last week.  23 Day unpleasant with rain.  24 Comfortable, appearance of more rain.  25 Day pleasant + warm. Our Wide Awake Club attended a political meeting at Winfield, had a pleasant time.  26 Day pleasant + warm, evenings very fine.  27 Pleasant, in the evening James Aiken Lectured in the Independent Hall. Subject, A night at Valley Forge, it was very good. I superintended the whole affair for him, the proceeds of the Lecture Amounted to $70 it was done to make up a loss that he had met with two weeks ago, while he had been staying all night at a friends, in the country, he was robbed of all his money, amounting to $50, so we gave him a surplus. Peggy Miller drowned herself, over the River, she was Melancholy.  28 Sunday, day cool. Mrs. Christie was buried, she died yesterday.  29 Pleasant + warm, evening beautiful.  30 Unpleasant, rained all day.  31 Still raining, travelling very bad. Miss Maggie Holstine was married to a Mr. Sampson of Winona Minnesota. vote in the state for Col. A.G. Curtins maj. In the state for Governor, is 32,127. Gov. is 492, 624.
[Pg 112]  November. 1860.  1 Day unpleasant with rain. Wm. Myers was married this morning to Miss Sarah Mower, the Hudsons gave a concert in Independent Hall, they are excellent Singers, wrote to Ed.  2 Day very blustry, with rain, wrote to D.W.B. + to M.  3 Rained all day, toen very dull, nothing doing.  4 Sunday. Day pleasant + cool.   wrote to Em.  5 Day pleasant, a daughter of Jacob Wolfe died, aged 23 years. Our Wide Awakes turned out in the evening + had a fine parade.  6 Day cool. Election day, the following are the Candidates for President + Vice President, Abraham Lincoln of Ill. + Hannibal Hamlin of Maine, on the Republican Ticket, John C. Breckinridge of Kentucky + Joseph Lane of Oregon, on the Democratic Ticket, Stephen A. Douglas of Ill. + Herschel V. Johnson of       on the other wing of Democracy, John Bell of Tennessee + Edward C. Everett of Massachusetts on the Union Ticket + Gerritt Smith of New York +       on the Abolition Ticket. We gave Lincoln ^in town 274 maj. Union County gave Lincoln + Hamlin overall 972 maj. The State of Pennsylvania gave Do- Do- 63,527 maj. Overall Cand. everything passed off pleasantly in our town, it was very quiet.  7 Day pleasant + cool. Election returns very favorable for Lincoln + Hamlin, for a tremendous majority, throughout the Northern States. Edwin C. Wolfe was married to Miss Mariam McCuen of John Pauls.  8 Day cool and unpleasant.  9 Unpleasant with rain + quite cool.  10 Still raining, unpleasant. River rising fast.  11 Sunday. Cool, with rain.  12 Day pleasant + more moderate.  13 Pleasant + warm. River very high.
[Pg 113]  14 Day pleasant, town dull. I attended a woman with Delirium Tremens, she was bad indeed.  15 Day quite warm + pleasant. Miss Mary E. Wolfe died at ^Atlanta Georgia wrote to W.F.  16 Pleasant + warm.  17 Still pleasant. Town lively.  18 Sunday cool.  19 Day pleasant, a party of 8 went to Penns Creek Hunting.  20 Pleasant + warm, went hunting, chased two deer.  21 Day warm, chased deer again with the dogs, but had no shot.  22 Very warm, did not go out from camp to day.  23 Rained + snowed quite hard, returned home from hunting, had a pleasant time, but shot no deet.  24 Day very cold + stormy.  25 Sunday. Still cold. River nearly frozen over. Race + canal closed.  26 Day moderating. Snow in the evening. Miss Elizabeth Wallace died. I assisted in making a Post Mortem examination, we found a number of cysts containing fluid of a very character, + one cyst that had been injected into with Tinct, Iodine, contained ^calcareous deposits.  27 Snow melting very fast. Miss Cordie Baldwin was married to Mr Charles Sickard of Cincinnatti Ohio. Buried Miss Wallace considerable mud. wrote to Dr. B. + H.C.S.  28 Day pleasant + rather warm.  29 Thanksgiving day, in the evening out Festival Glee Club, held a Concert in New Berlin, 9 in number, we had a pleasant time and a respectable audience, defrayed expenses +c.  30 Day cloudy, with rain, in the evening I was called to College hill to attend a Student  (                Tower) fell and dislocated his elbow, I reduced it quite easily.
[Pg 114]  December. 1860.  1 Day cold + blustry, with snow storms.  2 Sunday. Cold and disagreeable.  wrote to Bro. Ed.  3 Day cool. Snow in the afternoon. Adjourned Court Commenced ^Judge Sinn presided. Congress organized to day + the Pres. Message was read.  4 Day more pleasant. Snow melting.  5 Warmer + more comfortable Town rather lively.  6 Day pleasant.  7 Pleasant. Town very dull.  wrote to S.M.P.  8 Court adjourned. Snowed hard all morning, in the Afternoon the Sleighs were fetched out + good use was made of the sleighing. Snow about 6 in. deep.  9 Sunday, pleasant, rather warm for good sleighing.  10 Unpleasant with rain all day. Snow melting fast. Wrote to J.M.B.  11 Day cold, roads very rough.  12 Still cold + stormy.  13 Very cold + freezing very hard.  14 Town dull, too cold to be out of the house. Coldest night of the season.  15 Ice was forged in all corners this morning.  16 Sunday, day pleasant but cold.  17 Day moderating. Regular court commenced. Judge Woodward presided  18 Pleasant + cool, a light snow.  19 Day pleasant, wrote to Harrisburg. Wife of John Zearfoss died.  20 Unpleasant with rain, buried Mrs Zearfoss.  21 Still unpleasant with rain, in the evening our Festival Glee Club gave a Concert in Independent Hall, rather a Slim turn out, Audience highly respectable, with good order, all passed off well + satisfactory.  22 Day cold + stormy. Court adjourned.  23 Sunday. Day pleasant.
[Pg 115]  24 Day pleasant + moderating.  25 Christmas day. Twen rather dull for a Holiday. Times has a great effect on pleasure at present. The numbers of the Lutheran Church are holding a Festival in Independent Hall for the benefit of said church.  26 Pleasant + appearance of snow, day rather dull, in the evening I was elected Treasurer of our Masonic Lodge.  27 Day cool + stormy. This morning J.B. McLaughlin was married to Miss Catharine M. Wilson, both of this place.  was installed at Treasurer of Charity Lodge No. 144.  28 Day pleasant.  29  Pleasant, went to Harrisburg. Stopped at the Jones House.  30 Sunday. Snowed all day in the evening went to hear the Rev. Dr. Dewitt preach, heard an excellent sermon.  31 Returned home from Harrisburg, the place is very lively as the Legislature meets the 1st of Jan. a great many loners[?] are on hand wanting office.      wrote to Emilie  This month the votes were counted in the different States for President + Vice President. Abe. Lincoln + Hannibal Hamlin received the highest vote ever cast for any former President.   Lincoln + Hamlin had 180 Electors.  Brecenridge [sic] + Lane  72   Bell + Everett   39   Douglas + Johnson  12      303  Lincoln + h. Maj. over all - 57 votes in the Electoral College.





[Names pg 04]  Names.  James H. Pross  25  James Christie  26  Millard Donarchy  27  Thos. Shoemaker  28  John Lilley   29  Thompson Donarchy 30  James L. Wolf  31  James W. Hutchinson 32  William H. Yerkes  33  G.F. Miller   34  Lewis Palmer  35  Joel C. Kelly   36  John Pross   37  Peter Lenhart  38  Byers Ammons  39  Jas. S. McCormick  40

[Names pg 02]  Art.3. Any citizen of Lewisburg and vicinity of the age of Sixteen years or upwards, may become a Member of this Association by signing his name to the Constitution.    Art. 4. The officers of this Association shall be a President; four Vice Presidents, a Corresponding Secretary, a Recording Secretary, and a Treasurer, who shall be elected annually by ballot, a majority of the Members present being necessary to constitute a choice. The Association may also appoint other Officers as from time to time may seem expedient.    Art. 5. The duties of the Officers shall be to call and provide for Special Meetings, to procure documents, and generally to conduct the affairs of the Association.    Art. 6. Funds shall be raised by voluntary contributions, and paid out by the Treasurer only on the written order of the President attested by the Recording Secretary; but the Secretary shall issue no order, unless for necessary incidental expenses, without the concurrence of at least two Vice Presidents.
[Names pg 03]  Art. 7. Regular quarterly meetings of the Association shall be held on the first Tuesday evening of every regular Court.    Art.8. This Constitution may be amended at any quarterly meeting, by the vote of two-thirds of the Members present, provided such amendment shall be proposed at least one month previous.    Art. 9. The Association may adopt such By-Laws as it shall deem proper, provided they do not conflict with this Constitution.    Names    Names  Eli Slifer   1 J.D. Caldwell   13  Dennis Phillips  2 James Kelly   14  James Aiken   3 Charles S. Yoder  15  James Gibson  4 Jno. Nesbit Jr.  16  William Frick   5 Ralph Carkhuff  17  Daniel Shaffer  6 Eli Overpeck   18  James Blair   7 J. M. Duncan   19  Wm. VanGezer  8 Chas. S. Crites  20  Jacob H. Brown  9 William Moore  21  Thos. Graham  10 William Moore  22  Theo. S. Christ  11 John Chalfant  23  E. C. Marsh   12 James S. Marsh  24
[Names pg 01]  Constitution  Of  Lewisburg Republican Association.  Article. 1. This shall be called the Lewisburg Republican Association, the objects of which are the admission of Kansas into the National Union as a Free State, and generally to prevent the Spread of human Slavery in all Territory under the care of Congress and into the States now Free; also to prevent the importation into our Country of paupers and criminals from other Nations, to secure the strict observance of our Naturalization Laws, and frustrate the undue Political influence of Roman Catholicism. At the same time, we disclaim all intention of interfering with Slavery in the States where it now exists, or with the religious privileges of any portion of our Countrymen.    Art. 2. The means to accomplish these aims, shall be by public addresses, and by the dissemination of truthful and patriotic reading matter.



[Pg 87]  16 Day pleasant + warm, dissected all forenoon, had a visit from W.H.C.  17 Pleasant + very warm, dissected at night, wrote to M.U.P.  18 Unpleasant, rained hard all day + night.  19 Rain in the morning. Afternoon + evening very pleasant, dissected all forenoon.  20 Sunday, day pleasant, heard the Rev. Furness preach, he delivered an excellent discourse. Text was Our Father who art in Heaven, dined with Wm. H. Chamberlin at Chas. Armstrongs + then in the evening at Tea at the Ashland House,  wrote to D.S.K.  21 Day pleasant, but cool. There was a large Fire near the University this morning, during the excitement one of our Students struck a Policeman + was arrested, out Prof. Rogers, went his security + he was released at night it rained very hard.  22 Morning cold + disagreeable, dissected at night. J.C. Kreamer was ^married to Miss Maggie Beaver at the Furnace.  23 Day pleasant + cool, dissected all forenoon.  24 Cold but pleasant. Thanksgiving day, college closed, I spent the Forenoon with friends, W.H. Chamberlin + Wilson Murray. After eating heartily of a good dinner, I promenaded Chesnut St. it was literally crowded with Ladies + Gents, the Military was out in gay colours + made a fine display, the evening I spent at home,  wrote to Sister Savilla  25 Pleasant + cool, a light rain + appearance of Snow, dissected at night.  26 Day warm + pleasant, dissected all forenoon.  27 Sunday, very pleasant, heard Rev. J.H. Kennard preach W.D.W.B.  28 Day pleasant, + warm.  29 Very warm. A vote was taken at college + carried, to have a committee appointed to wait upon our worthy Prof. Geo. B. Ward M.D. + have him agree to allow us, (the present class) to have his portrait painted + hung in the Wistar + Horner Museum, of the University of Penna. Med. Depart. as her intends resigning in the Spring and we take this method of showing our high respect for him.  30 Very pleasant + warm, dissected all forenoon + evening,  wrote to J.W.C.
