Transcript



[1]  Sallie E. Chamberlin    With this little book -   accept the renewed and  devoted love of  Annie Bell  Hosp’l No. 8, Nashville  Dec. 25th 1864
[2]  Sunday Jan 1st, 1865.  What an eventful week the past has been -- so much of fear & hope, life & death has been pressed into it that it seems as if a month had passed since last Sabbath day -- when just at this hour, Dr. Freeman, Annie, brother Jim and I sat down to our quiet little Christmas dinner in the linen room. How we laughed at the comical speeches by Dr. F & Jim how far from our minds was the idea that before the beginning of another week one of us should have seen the last of earth! God doubtless meant it for a lesson to all of us -- this withdrawal from our midst of one so respected & loved - and I believe it has done us good. The last two days have been very sad ones -- everything reminded us of our loss and we could scarcely attend to any of our duties. On Friday we did not attempt to enter our
[3]  wards but spent the day in packing the various articles of clothing and other possessions belonging to our lamented friend preparatory to expressing them to his friends -- and I am not ashamed to record here that the task cost us many bitter tears. From many things we saw in looking over his papers etc. we have drawn the conclusion that he must have suffered with some hidden disease (heart or lungs) and that he feared he might die suddenly. Everything was in perfect order, never have I known any one so systematic in every particular. He was a Christian we have every reason to believe and is now reaping the [re]ward of his patient toil and constant efforts to fulfill every duty. Annie & I have talked much together, during the past few days & think we understand each other better than we have for some time past. Our mutual sorrow has brought us nearer together, and the breach which I have some times feared  [4]  was growing up between us is I think quite closed. Nor do I think it ever really existed, but so much have we been occupied with our hospital cares & duties that we have not devoted enough time to an interchange of thoughts & feelings always necessary to establish & preserve perfect confidence, even between the best of friends--   Yesterday I received a letter from brother Wes announcing an arrangement he has been making and a proposition to me, which astonished me very much -- Tells me has taken a house & will expect me to go on immediately and take charge of it. How can I leave this work was my first though[t] it is impossible! It is selfish in him to want to remove me from this work to which I have given my whole soul & strength for nearly a year past, and in which I feel that I have accomplished some good - to myself as well as the many of whom I have had the care.
[5]  But when I reflected for a little while upon the unhappy, unsettled life he has led for the past five years (and the cause of it) the temptations to which he is exposed, a conflict was begun in my mind, to know which was my duty - & the conflict continues yet. If I refuse he may think that I do not love him or that I do not appreciate his generous offer, and will not understand my motives for refusing. Help me oh, my Heavenly Father to decide this difficult question-- And now on this the first day of a new year help me to look to Thee for strength for from Thee alone can it be derived[?]   Help me to devote my live wholly to Thy service -- and fill my heart with Thy love so that I may be prepared not only to live aright but for death should it come suddenly. Keep, oh! keep me pure in health & give me strength to do Thy will in all things --     [6]   Wednesday eve Jan 11th   Two days after writing the above after much thought and a prayerful consideration of the subject on all sides I decided to go to Norfolk. The duty I owe to those  who are nearest and dearest to me must be paramount to that I owe my country, and as my kind brother assures me that I can work there for “the cause” as well as here it leaves me no alternative. When I remember my past life - how full of errors it has been, how my wilful persistence in wrong-doing  must have pained and disappointed my brothers from whom I have never received anything but kindness, I am glad to have the opportunity of showing one of them at least that I am not ungrateful - that I have repented of the past, and hope to prove myself more worthy of their affection -- For a long time Annie & I had been talking of paying a visit to Chattenooga, and when I
[Pgs 5-6 insert] Visit to Lookout Mt. after battle
[7]   made up my mind to go home we made arrangements to go to C. [Chattanooga] before I left. We had to unwind a little red-tape before we procured a pass, but through the kindness of Mr. Cameron (who gave us a letter of introduction to Gen. Webster) Dr Byrn, our surgeon in charge (who in the highest terms recommended us to the medical director) we succeeded, and on Friday afternoon we started at two oclock. We had rather an uncomfortable ride but met with no accident & reached our destination (“on time”) about seven oclock next morning -- When we stepped out of the car we saw nothing but mud on all sides. With the aid of the conductor who carried our valise we waded through it to the “Crutchfield House”-- and then how to get to “Hosp. No 1” was the next question. Wishing to give Sallie a surprise we sent a note to Miss Dade who presently appeared in an ambulance & took us to their quarters. “No 1” was built by Gen’l. Bragg for a “Confederate” hospital in during his reign in C___ and is beautifully    [8]   situated on an eminence overlooking what remains of the town, -- is comfortable well ventilated and in every respects well adapted to the purpose. We spent the afternoon quietly with our friends & in the evening attended “the social” a weekly gathering of surgeons & ladies, which we would have enjoyed more had we been well acquainted. Drs Boyd (surgeon in charge), Lawrence, Price, &, Wiles were present with their wives -- beside several clerks orderlies etc. & our “worthy” selves, --    Next morning we tried to get an ambulance to go to “Lookout mountain” but there being an order against citizens using them we could not get them one from the med. director. Remembering that Col. Carleton was commander of the post, on the strength of my old acquaintance with his wife, concluded to apply to him -- and was successful. At one oclock we started and after the most tedious ride I ever had over the worst road I ever saw, we reached the top of the mountain in time to visit “the point” before dark
[9]  We were not disappointed in the view of which we had heard so much -- it is grand beyond description. And what heightens its interest is that our brave troops once won a victory on that spot-- scaling the steep precipice and driving the enemy from their strong position. The old flag-staff on which flaunted their bastard colors, and on which our victorious boys proudly raised our glorious old banner stands there yet -- also the frame-work on which hung their swinging siege gun with which they hoped to effect so much --   On our return we passed by the cottage where reside two of the lovliest couples it has ever been my good fortune to meet Dr & Mrs Harlow & Friend Leeds & his wife (quakers) we stopped to deliver a note from Mr Cameron, when they insisted so much upon our remaining there all night, that we concluded to stay and dismissed the ambulance hoping to return next day in the one which usually reports at the     [10]  officer’s hospital every day. We spent a very pleasant evening & next morning soon after breakfast Mr L- accompanied us to No 3. the new hospital in which Miss Tyson reigns supreme - and afterwards to “Rock City” where we spent the morning -- I wish I had words to describe that wonderful work of nature -- great moss covered rocks from seventy feet in heighth to  a hundred & upwards, standing in rows with passages between reminding one of streets in alleys -- We found Mr L__ a most interesting companion -- An ardent lover of nature in all its forms, a botanist & geologist he was constantly dropping words of useful information. We spent the afternoon with Miss T., hoping every moment to see an ambulance drive to the door, but none arriving we were compelled to stay over night. Next morning, fearing that no ambulance would come that day, Annie & Sallie started to walk to C.
[11]  thinking the[y] could send for me. Soon after they left Mr Leads came over & told me an amb-- would be ready to go down the mountain at one oclock & I had better walk over with him to the officer’s hospital. When we reached that place it was too early for the coach so he took me to his house again where I had dinner. In the midst of it the ambulance came so I hurried away bidding good-bye with much regret to our kind friends whom I can scarcely hope ever to meet again. The only passengers were a german captain of an Ills. regt. from the hospital the sergeant of ambulances from the med. director’s office (Sergt. Bradly, 20th Ct.[?]) and myself. A heavy rain had set in during the morning and as the cover of the amb-- leaked we had rather a damp ride. The roads had become more execrable than ever and just after we got off the mountain, driving over a deep cut the tongue of the ambulance snapped off and there we were, two miles from     [12]  town, in the middle of a perfect sea of mud with the rain pouring down and there we had to wait an hour & a half until the driver rode the horses to the city & sent a picket ambulance for us. It was  a comical predicament & in spite of the discomfort I enjoyed it -- It was nearly dark when we reached No 1 - and the girls were growing uneasy about me. Next day ^(Tuesday)^ at one oclock we rode to the depot in a government wagon and taking Sallie with us to fill my place here turned our backs upon Chattenooga. The car was a filthy dirty one with hard board seats, so we had a very weary uncomfortable ride home & meeting with several detentions did not reach Nashville until nearly ten oclock. Thus ends our trip to Look-out- there were many points of interest which we wanted to visit “Lulah Lake”-- the falls etc. but had not time-- Now I must prepare for my journey home ---
[13]  “Home” Jan 22nd/65.   At home once more! Under the same roof which sheltered me during ^part of^ my childhood, how many the changes since then. I can scarcely realize that I am here,  so hurried were my preparations to come. Will had written me that he would like to have me bring him a good colored woman to relieve Emily of the care of Jessie-- after I found one I had a great deal of trouble to arrange every thing for her, procure the proper pass etc -- But all was ready on Tuesday last (17th) and at two in the afternoon we took our departure from Nashville. It was hard to leave “No 8” - hard to say goodbye to the patients of whom I had had the care for a long time, and the attendants to whom I could not help being attached after such long and pleasant intercourse. But the most painful thought of all was that though they seemed sorry to part with me, & will miss me for a while, in a little time I will be forgotten -- & my place in their affections be filled by others more worthy perhaps, but not more earnest or desirous of doing right.      [14]  Sometimes it seemed to me that Annie was glad to have me leave -- I hope I do not wrong her by the thought, but she expressed little or no regret, and continued to treat me in what seems to me her harsh manner until I left - she cannot love me as she once professed to do. How hard it was to say goodbye to Dr & Mrs May - dear good, kind friends that they have ever been to me during my hospital life -- they occupy a share in my heart which can never be usurped by other friends -- Our noble hearted steward too - great are my obligations to him. I trust I may some time have an opportunity of repaying at least a small part of them.     Norfolk Feb 13th/65--  What a long pause I have made - interrupted while writing the above, I never had time to add a word during my hurried, busy visit home -- So much to be done to get ready for “house keeping,” my dilapidated wardrobe to repair & replenish, & so many friends to see that I had scarcely time to breathe.   On Wednesday morning (Feb 8.) Mother, Cadd & myself started for H---g expecting to spend
[15]   ten or twelve hours with Aunt Mary, and meet Wes on the night train. Owing to the heavy fall of snow the day before the train was several hours behind time, and after losing all our patience waiting at the depot the cars travelled so slowly that it was nearly five oclock when we reached H---g   Aunt Mary seemed glad to see us & has changed very little since I saw her last -- Uncle looks older & seems to be failing in health. Rob is the selfish foppish dissipated fellow he always was. Frank seems to have settled down to an old bachelorhood--is kind-hearted & unselfish as ever -- Though less talented with his good sense & better principles, he is far the superior of the two! At two oclock leaving Caddie for a two or three days visit in H___ we started for Baltimore where we arrived about eight oclock in the morning. After an elegant breakfast at Barnum’s Wes started out to attend to some business and mother & I thought we would go & see Mrs Boggs & do a    [16]   little shopping -- After wandering up & down Baltimore st for a while (during which we were fortunate enough to meet Mrs Reese & Virginia Fish) we finally found the residence of Mrs B. & made a very pleasant call there--   At three oclock we had dinner & at four started for the boat which we found terribly crowded & if Wes had not engaged state-rooms before hand, we would not have had a place to sleep-- it was difficult even to get a seat. It was so cold that we could not stay long on deck but ^we^ remained long enough to have a view of Fort McHenry. We had a very good supper about seven oclock, & soon after it was over I retired. The stateroom was so cold that with the two thin blankets provided & all my clothing over me I could not get warm enough to sleep soundly. Mother could not sleep at all, so she got up & sat by the stove most of the night. At eight
[17]   oclock next morning we arrived at Old Point where the first sight that greeted our eyes was the strong walls of the far-famed Fortress Monroe   As the boat stopped there for an hour & a half, Wes procured passes & took us into the fort. We had not time to see the half of it, but I saw much that was interesting, & to make me desirous of visiting it soon again. There I saw for the first time the “live-oaks” of Virginia & in the yard of the lately vacated head-quarters of Gen. Butler the famous Palmetto of South Carolina -- The former give the place the appearance of perpetual summer. While walking about we met a young officer LT. Eccleston - in whom Wes recognized an acquaintance & introduced to me-- a fine-looking young man with pure good countenance. His sister lives with him there (his only near relative ^I understand^) and he insisted very much upon our calling at his quarters - We had not time however so he promised to bring her to visit us     [18]   soon. From Old Point until we reached Norfolk (only a few minutes ride) there were many objects of interest to see-- Newport News near which the contest between the Monitor and Merrimac took place, and the Cumberland was sunk -- Fort Norfolk Naval Asylum & Portsmouth. It was after two oclock when we arrived in N___ procuring a cab we drove to Mr Whiting’s (a young man who lodges with Wes) place of business to get the key of the house -- He had not received Wes’ letter announcing our coming so the house was cold & cheerless enough.    Soon however a bright fire ^was^ burning in the grate & while the room was getting warmed we went through all the apartments. We found it more convenient & more comfortably furnished than we had imagined it would be. It was too cold to do anything that day but “hug” the grate but we managed to get two beds made up before evening. The cook had not yet arrived nor the groceries so we dined
[19]  at a restaurant between two & three ocklock when Wes came from the store he brought us some cakes etc & we did without supper. Early next (Saturday morning) the cook arrived, but having nothing in the house for breakfast we had to go to the restaurant again. During the day, the groceries arrived, and Wes sent home some marketing so at six in the evening (having taken a lunch of bread & butter at noon) we sat down to dinner -- (the first meal our new home) which consisted of fresh fish, stewed turnips cold-slaw, bread butter & coffee -- The boy engaged by Mr Whiting came about noon & without any telling presented himself with clean white “bib” to wait on table -- He is a  bright, little fellow about fourteen years old - and beside waiting on table will be able to run errands, do chamber-work attend to the fires, etc etc. The cook Sylvia is a fat slow creature who seems good-natured & anxious to do right & will I think be a good servant. As she attends to part of the sweeping    [20]   I have a great deal of time to myself which I can now spend in putting the house in order & arranging the preliminaries of housekeeping, but when we are once rightly settled, I shall be very unhappy if I cannot find some outside work to do. It is pleasant to have time once more for reading writing sewing & visiting, but how gladly would I exchange it all for my old life of busy usefulness at the hospital--where I had scarcely a moment to call my own. This seems so empty & selfish compared with that. I hope I have done right in abandoning it-- I shall try very hard to please my brother and save him if possible from the temptations with which he is surrounded-- Help me-- oh! My Father! -- in my own strength I can do nothing. A sharp bitter pang shot through my heart when on coming to the dinner table on sabbath he brought with him a bottle of wine-- That one of my father’s sons, one of my noble-hearted
[21]  brothers should become a devotee to the wine cup is a thought I cannot bear.   Drinking ^in moderation^ in itself may not be wrong-- but how many are ruined by it and how many happy homes are desolated & loving hearts broken -- oh! it cannot be right-- That which maddens the finest mind, and makes the strongest weak must be wholly wrong-- May God help me to keep my resolution to -- “touch not--taste not--”    Mr Whiting spent Saturday evening with us & on Sabbath started home to Rochester (N.Y.) for a visit of two or three weeks. He is very handsome, & rather quiet-- I hope he is good, as he will continue to occupy a room here & when he returns we will doubtless become better acquainted--   On Sabbath morning we went to a M. E. Church a good distance away & heard a tolerably good sermon by the pastor Mr Kennedy. The church has been a handsome one & most probably a fashionable one “before the war” -- now the congregation is slim & scattering--     [22]   Thursday Feb.--16th    On Tuesday Mother & myself took a long walk & when we returned met with an agreeable surprise-- found John & Harry Grier[?] sitting in Wes’ parlor-- Their vessel the Powhatan is lying at the Portsmouth Navy Yard for repairs and if they remain any time I presume we shall meet them often. Yesterday they took tea with us-- our first guests--What a nice talk we had over home and L____g affairs I think we all enjoyed it. This morning Lt. Eccleston (whom we met at the fort) and Lt. Bickley called-- The former will bring his sister to visit us soon. I heard from sister Caddie this morning the first news we have had from home--all are well and getting along nicely-- She writes of snow more than a foot deep and still falling-- how strange it seems-- Here the air is as warm as an April day at home the grass is green in sunny spots & hyacinths & crocuses are already springing up.   Tuesday Feb 21st  Another lovely morning--Spring is surely here. How thankful I am that I shall
[23]  see no more snow and ice this season--   Caddie writes on the 16th “we have twenty four inches of snow on the ground & the thermometer 23゜below zero--” Certainly it must seem to them that by some silent unknown power they have been transported to the north pole. I received letters from Sallie & Annie yesterday--oh! how glad I was to hear from Nashville once more and from old “No 8.” I also received a long, long letter (32 p) from Cousin Will Murray, giving an account of his capture imprisonment in “Libby” & release. He had a pretty hard time but fared well compared with many of our poor boys. How I should like to see him-- have not met him for ^more than^ two years-- the most peculiar but the dearest cousin I have. I was glad to hear of his promotion to the Captaincy of his old company-- he certainly deserved it--  Feb 22nd   This had been quite an eventful day-- Brother Wes proposed yesterday that we should  visit the navy yard this morning    [24]   and told us to meet him at the store at ten oclock-- & that Mr & Mrs Bishop & her mother would probably accompany us.   The first person we saw when we entered the counting room, was Capt. Ned Evans, just from home holding in his hand the precious little package, which an express receipt received several days ago, warned me was on the way. He was all curiosity to see it opened, and though I objected on the account of the presence of so many strangers. Wes unbound it and exposed its contents-- a beautiful & very valuable gold watch, chain & pin presented me by “many friends” (as the inscription reads) at Gen hospitals No 8. & 1. How unworthy I feel to receive such a gift! & yet how proudly I shall wear it not merely as an ornament but as a token that I am kindly remembered by the noble soldiers with whom & for whom I have labored during the past year-- the happiest of my life because the
[25]  most useful . This seems such a trifling sort of life compared with that so completely was every moment filled with work -- work which brought its own reward in the gratitude of the poor sufferers we were trying to benefit and a consciousness of having performed our duty -- But I must not draw comparisons -- My duty is here & I must try & do it faithfully trusting everything in the hands of God.--    When we left the store there was quite a party of us, Wes having invited his friend Mr Hand & Ned Evans to accompany us. We were soon on the ferry boat and a few moments more landed us at Ports-mouth. When we reached the Navy yard, the first thing which attracted our notice was the terrible destruction  of buildings etc. by the rebels when the[y] evacuated the city -- Several millions dollars worth of property is said to have been destroyed by fire & otherwise -- We were soon     [26]  alongside the Powhatan and Wes went on board to see if he could find either of the “Grier boys” -- He was gone but a moment when he returned with John, who invited us all to go on board although he said everything was out of order on account of repairs which were being made -- For the first time in my life I found myself on the deck of a man-of-war (or large vessel of any kind, and I was astonished at its size & roominess --   She carries twenty two guns the largest of which (10 inch) was on the “little Monitor” when the “Merrimac” was defeated & sunk -- and was lately used very successfully in the attack upon Fort Fisher -- John introduced us to Capt Miller executive officer who took us all through vessel -- every part of which, the “ward-room” “berth deck,” engine-room, galley &c was very interesting to me. The officers rooms especially the commodores are very well furnished, and they can live
[27]  almost as comfortably as at home.   When we had seen all that was to be seen on that vessel we got into a beautiful barge (ordered by Capt Miller) manned by twelve sailors, and rowed out to the noted iron-clad “Dictator” also lying at the yard for repairs. She is a Monitor of collossal [sic] dimensions her length being about 320 ft., and lies flat on the water, having, except the turret, smoke-stack etc only about two feet above the water. In the turret which is of wrought iron 15 inches thick there are two enormous guns, each weighing 21 tuns, or 42,000 lbs. Going below, instead of the dark dismal place we expected to find, we found it beautifully lighted up ^(with glass bulls eyes as well)^ as elegantly furnished -- officers quarters of course. John introduced us to Lt Roby chief-engineer & Dr Peck surgeon, who “showed us around” through every part of this curious vessel -- Going into the Engine room & from there to the furnace room we found ourselves twenty feet below    [28]  water -- though we could not realize it when told -- We left the vessel reluctantly, and getting into the barge again were rowed to the foot of the yard, and walked from there to the other entrance in order to have a better view of the demolished buildings. Along the wharf we saw a number of blockade (captured) runners the hulk of the old steam frigate “United States,” burnt by the rebels when the yard was destroyed -- and the “Santiago de Cuba,” which has captured so many prizes enriching all her officers & crew. On our return to the ferry we passed the house where the first case of yellow fever occurred in 1855 when the whole city was scourged & the victims ^were^ numbered by thousands.    Wes & myself were invited to a ball at Fortress Monroe this evening given by the officers, and Capt E was very anxious to have us return with him but it is so long since I have attended a gay gathering of any kind, and so lately that I have passed through such widely different scenes that I could not make up ^my mind to go^ --
[29]   Sunday March 19th/65    Five weeks since I came to Norfolk -- I can scarcely believe it yet sometimes the hours have hung rather heavily on my hands -- Not however, since the arrival of John Annie & Maggie Grier, two weeks ago last Wednesday -- the addition to the family has of course increased my cares and I do not have  quite so much leisure.    Maggie was sick for a few days and very cross and troublesome -- but has entirely recovered & is as bright & merry as can be.    We have had so much bad weather, that we have been out very little -- during the past week it has been comparatively pleasant & we have taken advantage of it. On Monday afternoon John Annie & myself walked up Free Mason St. past the quarters of Gen. Gordon, in front of which on a platform erected for the purpose in an open lot, a brass band was playing, and all the beauty & fashion of Norfolk were there to listen -- On Tuesday afternoon Annie Mother & I met John at the Ferry in Portsmouth and accompan-     [30]  ied by him & a friend of his Lt McNair of the New Ironsides, visited the Naval hospital a short distance below the city -- we had a pleasant walk & I found Mr McNair a very agreeable companion. After walking about the grounds a little, we went into the building (which is a very fine one) and called upon, Ensign Evans of the Powhatan who was wounded in the Fort Fisher engagement. He was wounded through one knee & the foot or ankle of the other leg -- very serious -- both of them -- & for a while his life was despaired of. The crisis is now past & though pale & much emaciated he is recovering slowly & seems in fine spirits -- Poor boy! (he is but seventeen -- a loyal Virginian) he does not realize yet the extent of his injuries -- he will scarcely even be able to walk without crutches--    After spending half an hour or more with him, his nurse took us through the wards where we saw many sufferers, and very plain evidences that there are no ladies there to look after the poor tars
[31]  I think that the hospital is poorly kept -- the men all complained of the poor quality of the food -- and the wards seem to lack ventilation entirely. Only two nurses are allowed for a hundred men & it is impossible for them to give the attention which is necessary to ^the^ speedy recovery of the sick or wounded.     They all seemed pleased to see us showing plainly that they do not have lady visitors very frequently. I saw so much to be done, that I could have gone to work with a will had I dared, & I was sorry when the time came for us to leave -- On our way back we intended stopping at the Balfour/military hospital, but evening was coming so rapidly that we were obliged to leave it for another day. On Thursday evening we all went to the theatre to see Proctor play Richelieu -- Ch’f Eng. Roby of the Dictator accompanied us. We were not very much pleased -- Proctor played well but was miserably supported -- the farce “Good for nothing”     [32]  was the most entertaining part of the performance or at least the most “laughable.” ^We met^ Lt. Wilson of Hartleton there, and I had a short conversation with him -- he seems to be quite a “fancy” young man & I cannot say that I admire him even though he may be what the gentleman would call a very “clever fellow.” Toward the close of the play Mr Roby introduced to us Ensign Ludlow of the “Dictator” who remained with us until we went home. He is rather fine-looking but a little “verdant” --   On Friday morning Annie & I accompanied John -- immediately after breakfast to the Powhatan -- After he attended to his morning business he took us to the “New Ironsides” lying only a short distance from the P_____ and after calling for Lt. McNair & Ch Eng. Greer we were escorted through the vessel and saw much that was interesting. Mr McNair took charge of me and was exceedingly polite &
[33]   kind, pointing out & explaining everything about the vessel that he thought would interest me. In his room he showed me a chair taken from the pirate ship Florida after its capture -- a very comfortable seat & a valuable relic -- We were very much hurried on account of our proposed visit to the Dictator which Annie had never seen, and she was to leave that morning for New York. Eng. Greer & Lt. McNair accompanied us back to the Powhatan where we were tendered a barge by Mr. Miller (acting master) and soon we were alongside the Dictator. At first we thought we should not get on board as they were already under way but Lt. Roby appeared on deck and told us we had ^yet^ fifteen minutes before she would leave. While Annie & the others were examining the turret etc. Lt J & I took a promenade on deck, and meeting the Commodore (“fighting John Rogers”) he introduced me & I had the honor of a little chat with the old hero --- We     [34]   went below for a few minutes and in the cabin met Dr Peck & Ensign Ludlow who accompanied us to the Engine room. There we saw all that ponderous machinery in motion & a wonderful sight it was to me --    We might have spent an hour there very agreeably but dared not delay -- so we said good-bye to our kind acquaintances and returned to the Powhatan where we remained (by invitation from John) to dine. Mr McNair remained with us until nearly dinner time -- John introduced his mess-mates Ensign Paris, Dr Johnson, Paymaster Wallack[?] ex-off- Wilkins and others -- Altogether we had a very pleasant visit and at three oclock returned to Norfolk once more   Last Saturday I received a long letter from Annie, ^in^ which she accuses me of having wronged her -- She & Mrs May have had an explanation & the latter told her that one reason which made her & the Dr feel coldly towards her, was because
[Pgs 35-36 insert] When Richmond was taken and rejoicings in Norfolk
[35]   of her unkindness to me -- She says she never meant to be unkind & to my great surprise tells me she loves me as well as she ever did. This assurance made me very happy for throughout all our misunderstanding she has been dearer to me than any other friend -- God knows how deeply & truly I have loved her & how I grieved over her apparent coldness to me. I have written her all that I felt -- all that I suffered -- how she will receive it I cannot tell --    She thinks me very weak & I so I am in many things -- & one as greater than any other is that of sensitiveness. I cannot bear the slightest want of confidence in those I love -- I trust them & they must trust me -- She tells me that she is engaged to Dr  Stubbs!  April 2nd   Agg Dale arrived with Harry Grier today -- looks wretchedly, yet not as badly as I expected to see her.     [36]   April 6th   I thought I should write a great deal in my little book but find I have but little time for it -- I must note however the events of the “3rd”--   About noon Wes wrote on the back of the a letter sent up from the store “I have just heard from good authority that Richmond is captured --”I was on my way down street to do a little shopping and as I neared old St. Paul’s church (built in 1739) the bell rung out a merry peal and glad tears sprung to my eyes when I thought of all we had gained and how that old bell that rung out the glad tidings of peace nearly a hundred years ago-- might soon proclaim the same blessing to hundreds of suffering hearts. Richmond taken at last! What glorious news-- Now the cry of war will soon cease in our land--    My heart was so full of joy & thanksgiving that I wanted to dance or shout -- As I proceeded down the
[37]   street I found it full of people with smiling faces, congratulating each other -- bands playing, flags waving -- in short the whole city seemed to wear an air of rejoicing. True there were some who looked frowningly -- but what did that matter to those who were happy. I bought a small flag before I returned home determining to hoist it somewhere about the house -- and did so to the great indignation of our rebel neighbors.    In the evening a grand reception was given Admiral Farragut which we attended and enjoyed exceedingly. It was held in the theatre (which was handsomely decorated for the occasion) and the whole building was crowded to overflowing. The Admiral made a little speech which displayed the modesty of his character and to me it was far the more interesting part of the evening’s entertainment. He has a remarkably amiable pleasant countenance, and it was fairly radient[sic] that evening He could not but feel     [38]  flattered by such a demonstration in the city from which he was driven for his Union sentiments four years ago-- Before we left we had the pleasure of taking the old hero by the hand along with the multitude who were given the privilege at the close of the meeting--  Saturday Eve. April 8.    Twenty five years old today! how little I realize it -- in feeling I do not think I shall ever grow old. Mother left us yesterday and I miss her so much -- the house seems desolate without her -- In housekeeping matters I have depended as much as possible upon myself so that in that respect I shall not miss her as much as might be supposed -- But her society, her advice and above all her sympathy were invaluable--   Monday April 10.   The news of an other glorious victory the “grand finale” reached us today-- the  surrender of Lee’s whole army general officers, arms etc -- to our brave, illustrious
[39]   Grant. It has difficult to realize that the end so long hoped for & devoutly prayed for is now at hand-- To Him who “doeth all things well” we ^owe^ all the praise -- He only  could guide us safely through such a contest--    May peace come now right speedily for armies be disbanded and thousands of loving hearts made to rejoice over the safe return of dear ones.    I received a letter from Sister Caddie today telling me that Aunt Fanny is dead -- Poor Aunt! I fear she died cherishing hard feelings against us which we have not deserved. Peace to her ashes! She (Caddie) tells me also that Maggie Murry is away up in Vermont at School--   April 13th   This is a sad, sad record I must make here tonight one that my heart still refuses to believe -- the death of our noble president Abraham Lincoln!    It seems as though no greater calamity could befall the nation at     [40]   this time -- yet God hath done it and it must be for the nation’s good. The news reached us about five oclock this evening -- Annie, Agg & I, but we thought it could not be true that it was only a rebel coward, until John returned about eight oclock bringing a confirmation of the terrible news in the shape of a [?] despatch which stated that he (our president) was shot -- assassinated in the theatre in Washington last night, and died this morning at seven -- also that Sec. Seward was stabbed & his son killed -- What a wail of mourning will go, up from millions tonight all over the North -- for he possessed the nation’s confidence & love -- Yet his work was done -- & nobly done Washington did not not half as much for his country. Lincoln!-- brave honest true, heart!-- God will reward thee -- and a nation will cherish thy memory saved -- as a martyr to its best interests
[41]  I received news from home today of mothers safe arrival there on Wednesday evening.   Expected to hear from brother who started for Richmond Wednesday morning, but was disappointed.   April 29th /   Just a week today since Annie, John and Maggie left -- how lonely it seemed at first without them -- especially Maggie “little feet” that Auntie talked so much about. Wes went back to Richmond on Wednesday leaving Will Alder (Of Muncy) here to be entertained for a day or two. Now he is gone & there is no one but Agg & I to bore each other --- I wish I could like her better -- but I never did care anything about her except as a common acquaintance & do not think I ever will. I pity her most sincerely and want ^to^ do everything in my power for her comfort but I cannot enjoy her society. Perhaps it is wrong to feel as I do but I cannot help it-- she is so tiresome -- always whining about her hard fortune, and acting so babyishly. I thought Em & Sadie would have been     [42]   here by this time, but have not heard from them for a week & dont know when to look for them -- Caddie too is coming-- how glad I will be to see them all--    Mr. Whiting is very kind we we are alone -- comes home early & spends the evening with us but I feel as if it is asking on receiving too much, when he has so many friends with whom doubtless he could spend the time far more pleasantly than with us -- I think I will tell him tonight not to do so anymore-- we shall not be afraid to stay alone until ten or eleven oclock -- He has purchased a horse and rides out very often. I envy him such a pleasure, these lovely spring days--    Had a long letter from Mother yesterday such a good letter & one from Tom how kind in him to answer so promptly.    Booth -- the cowardly assassin of our lamented president is dead -- was traced to a barn near Bowling Green by a detective & a squad of the 16th N. Y. Cavalry, and refusing to surrender was shot through
[43]   the neck by a serjeant -- and in two hours afterward his infamous life had fled to meet its Creator & Judge, who alone is able to punish such crime as his! --  May 8th   Another long pause-- and another startling record to make - one however which affects only the happiness of one or two rather, -- not of millions as the last the great event recorded here. Annie is engaged to Dr Stubbs -- A long letter from her this morning brought me the news -- which for all did not surprise me so very much, they seemed to fancy each other from the beginning of this acquaintence[sic] though I doubt if either dreamed of such a happy ending -- God bless them! -- I know little of him but she loves him and that is proof enough that he is worthy. Shall it be with us as it has been with my other friends. I believe not -- she will not desert me because she is married & yet I scarcely dare to hope that she will be an exception, and the thought     [44]   while I rejoice with her in her happiness brings warm tears to my eyes. Nothing but the finest joy can result from such a union as this will be. She and Sallie are on their way home -- going by boat all the way from Nashville to Pittsburg. A most delightful trip. How happy she must be -- on their way to join loved ones after more than two years of labor in such a noble cause -- I can hardly realize that old “No 1” & “No 8” are hospitals no longer -- but how glorious to think that no more moans of pain will echo in those old halls -- the war over -- no more wounds, no more suffering far from dear ones, for our brave [?] --   Last Wednesday (3rd) Emma & Sadie arrived & how glad I was to see them -- it had been so lonely for several days -- Both are looking so well -- and what merry laughs we are having together--    Tonight we expect brother Wes-- how much we miss him. Mr Whiting started ^(this morning)^ for Elizabeth N.C. to be absent several weeks. He started once and
[45]   had to come back. Had a letter from poor Jim Mitchell on Saturday -- he has been very ill and now is not expected to live long -- ^has^ heart disease which seems to be incurable. I wish he was a Christian -- he talks so wildly that did I not know him, better I should think he never had a serious thought --   May 18th   That delightful horse-back ride last evening was almost too much for me -- my poor back & limbs are so stiff tonight I can scarcely move -- but it must not hinder my recording here an account of the pleasant trip we have had. For a long time Wes had been promising our friends at Fortress Monroe a visit, and on Sabbath evening Capt Evans came over & remained until Monday afternoon -- When he left, Wes told him he thought we would go over on Wednesday. Soon after four oclock in the morning (yesterday) we were wakened and before six were on board the     [46]   “Martin” with the prospect of bright clear day & a general good time before us. The ride was without incident but pleasant -- and we landed at the Fort about half past seven oclock -- astonished to find no one to meet us -- We all felt provoked, and resolved to hunt up Lt Eccleston, who had given us a most pressing invitation to visit him. Before we reached his quarters we met him and from him received a cordial welcome although he had heard nothing of our proposed visit. He took us to his rooms but before stopping to rest said while it cool we had better walk up to the ramparts & see the “Union” or Lincoln gun. It is immense but I can ^not^ remember its dimensions. While the Lt. rested ate his breakfast we rested--  & as soon as he was through went out to the parade ground to see “Guard Mounting.” Never having seen it before it was very interesting to me -- While watching it a, party
[47]   composed of several ladies and one gentleman came up and took a seat near us. A single glance at the gentleman’s face convinced me that I knew him, and the instant he turned towards us I recognized Will Finn --- (now in service as surgeon in charge of a hospital boat, with the rank of Major) whom I had not seen for three or four years & little dreamed of meeting in this vicinity. It was a mutual surprise & a most delightful one to all of us. He had only a few moments to talk to us but promised us a visit in Norfolk soon.    When we returned to the Lt’s quarters Mr Evans & Lt Wilson came to see us, and the former expressed himself much offended with us for not going to his quarters -- We then attacked him for his neglect etc -- & we had quite a time -- He was so worried & provoked that he did not recover from it all day & kept talking about it all the time to our great annoyance. It is a pity he is such an “old fogey” -- he is a     [48]   good fellow in many respects. About ten oclock Lt Wilson procured an ambulance and took us over to the Chesepeake hospital afterwards through the village of Hampton to the old Hampton church, built by the early settlers in 1668, and destroyed by our (Mass) troops in 1861-- I think. Only a portion of the battered walls remain, but the view is interesting from its associations.    At the hospital we were introduced to the matron Mrs Dully of Pittsburg -- a very sweet lady who showed us everything of interest -- When we returned to the Fort we found Lt E__ had prepared for us a very nice dinner to which we were ready to do ample justice -- As soon as it was over we went to the ramparts again to see target-practice with ^some of^ the great guns & I had the pleasure of firing on of them.    Then we went to the parade-ground to see dress-parade, after which Lt Wilson took me out to ride (horseback) upon the beach -- And a delightful ride it was, although the horse I
[49]   rode was fractious that I was in danger all the while of being run away with -- or thrown upon the beach -- When we returned, tea was waiting & immediately afterwards we had to change our dresses for the “hop” given in our honor by our friends -- at Lt Wilson’s casemate--    We met a few ladies & several officers & found them very pleasant. The music was good & we had a nice time altogether-- It was one oclock when we retired, and oh! but we were tired. Lt. E__ gave up his casemate entirely to us -- Em & Sadie slept together in the bed-room & I took the single bed in the sitting-room.    Early this morning, Capt Evans called for us to go & see the water batteries and take a little stroll upon the beach -- Then we had breakfast & went right to the boat. Lt Wilson came over with us --    Altogether we had a delightful time -- do not think I ever enjoyed    [50]    myself more. All our friends there were so kind --   May 20th    What a world of trials this is. I have this day experienced on of the bitterest disappointments of my life.    Eve since I came here Wes has promised that if Richmond was taken he would take me there, and when about seven of eight weeks ago I told him Em & Sadie were coming, he said we would wait until they came & all go together. Day before yesterday he told the girls he would be obliged to go there this week & thought as it might be the last opportunity they would have they had better with him & I could go ^some time^ again -- So this morning they started, and I had to stay behind to take care of one who has not a single claim upon me expect common charity -- for i never loved her, and we were not intimate at all -- so long I have thought & talked of this visit -- and my an-
[51]   ticipations were all the brighter when I found the girls would go -- and now to have all my long-cherished plans completely overturned is almost more than I can patiently bear. For so long I have had no pleasures of the kind that I was prepared to enjoy it so much --    Wes says I can go some-time again but I do not feel as if I ever wanted to go now -- to go alone would be no pleasure at all -- He thinks it is all the same thing if I only get there -- he does not appreciate my disappointment at all nor shall he see how my heart aches -- I wish I were at home tonight with Mother to talk to. I can hardly bear to go into Agg’s room & yet I would not be unkind    Not ^a^ word has she said to me about my trial today -- she cried bitterly yesterday but I think it was on account of her own disappointment -- not mine -- I know it is wrong to feel as I do, but she does not know it & what does it matter     [52]   so long as I can hide my feelings from her. If she were not so ill I think I would dislike her -- so insensible she appears to her position here, or that she is the least trouble or expense. As it is I pity her and if there was anything to take hold of I think I could love her -- but there is not. It seems so unnatural in her never to express a desire to see her mother -- she never speaks of home any more than if she had none.    Our neighbor Mrs Finley[?] has been in to see her twice --- I am glad of it as I am alone with her & do not know what may happen --    I have written three letters today to Mother brother Jim & John Grier -- I am more contented writing than at anything else. The house seems so lonely and to sit down to the table entirely alone takes away all my appetite -- Poor Miserable me! Tomorrow I hope I shall feel better more resigned to my fate --
[53]  June 10th-- How greatly relieved my mind has been for the past few days compared with the last time I sat here writing -- I feel as if a mountain’s weight had been relieved.    Having felt it my duty to inform Mrs Dale of Ag’s true condition (knowing that the latter tried to hide it) to save myself from reproach hereafter, she wrote to Ag to come home sending word to us (through Caddie) to take her if she was able to travel. She seemed to care very little about going but when her mother did send we thought it best she should go immediately and the Dr coincided with us -- Said “do not delay a day longer in starting than you can help, for in a few days she may be entirely unfitted for the journey-- she could could not go alone & so I made hasty preparations, and a week ago yesterday (June 2) we started.    She was very sick going up on the boat and required constant     [54]   attention. I only sat on deck a few minutes or perhaps and hour, during which I had a pleasant chat with Ajt. Genl. Thomas -- who was afterwards very kind to me -- accompanying me to breakfast etc-- I slept none at all during the night, partly because of the noise on deck & chiefly because of my anxiety on Ag’s account. Arrived at Baltimore, I left her on the boat while I drove round to Mrs Boggs to see if Mrs Grier & Mrs Nair[?] were going home that day (as was expected) in which case it would not be necessary for me to go any further. To my great disappointment I found they would not be ready to go until the next week so there was nothing left for me to do but go out to L--g.    I will pass over the journey as rapidly as possible -- It was very unpleasant on account of the heat & dust & fatiguing to both of us. Ag bore it better than I expected and as we neared home became so much excited
[55]   that she insisted upon sitting up. I was very glad to meet in the cars above Harrisburg an old acquaintance Charley Hammer[?] whom I have not seen for four years. He has changed so much that I scarcely recognized him.   Having telegraphed to Mrs. D. from Baltimore that we would be home that evening I found her waiting with Mrs Strawbridge and a carriage at the depot. There was considerable difficulty getting Ag out of the cars and she fainted -- causing poor excitable Mrs D__ a great fright. Soon however we were comfortably seated in the carriage & on our way to the “Burg” -- It seemed odd to cross the river on a ferry and the town looked so differently without the old bridge    Charley Evans company arrived the same evening (31 men) and half the population of the town had gathered on the bank to receive them. Great were the rejoicings -- all the church-bells ringing a merry peal of welcome.     [56]    I was glad to find Tom at home he and mother having heard of my arrival met me at Mrs Dale’s. She later wanted me to stay with them that evening, but I was so tired & suffering with such a violent headache that I preferred to go home & rest. Sunday was a quiet day-- Tom drove me in the buggy to town after supper and I called to see Bell Gorse[?], Maze Hayes, Annie Grier, and Ag. Found the latter brighter than I dared hope but suffering with the heat. Jennie Beaver walked out to see me after church -- all alone-- none of the other girls came but Maze Howard & Lizzie Dickson -- On Monday morning I left again -- and had a terrible dirty uncomfortable ride to Baltimore -- where I stayed until Tuesday evening. Went out to Ms Boggs after breakfast (stopped at Barnum’s in time to see Ms C. & Mrs. Nair start for home -- Then went to the boat & engaged my stateroom
[57]   did some shopping & returned to the hotel where I remained until time for the boat to leave. Would have called to see some friends, but my clothes were too dirty. I was delighted to find Capt Johnson was still provost marshall on the boat--(The Louisiana) having met him on the return from Fortress Monroe & found him very agreeable. He spent most of the time with me & was very kind indeed -- I also met George Fisher of Harrisburg (now married & living in N. York) and by Capt J. was introduced to Mr Craskey & his daughter – [?] Phila. Mr C. is one of the trustees of the college at L. & is acquainted with Dr Loomis & other friends there.    I arrived at home on Wednesday morning -- really glad to be back again -- We have had a quiet week of it since -- going out very little on account of the heat. This afternoon we visited the Navy     [58]  yard and through the kindness of Lt Squires of the Marine corps saw much that was interesting. A shower came up & interfered somewhat with our pleasure but we had a nice time in spite of it. Saw in the “dry-dock” the great rebel ram Columbia --  July 17th/65   Three days more & we will all be on our way to good old Penna. should nothing occur to prevent -- but I do not look forward to my vacation with as much pleasure as I did a week ago -- All along ever since I came here, Wes has said that When I went home he would close the house & take his meals at the hotel -- Now he declares his intention of keeping the house open with our cook as housekeeper. This would not cause me so much uneasiness did I not know how dishonest she is and how little reliance can be placed upon her word. Then too she has no more judgment than a child -- and it seems a very poor compliment to me
[59]   after all the trouble I have had watching her, planning for her and keeping everything valuable under lock & key -- That she should be considered quite as competent to take charge as myself. There are many other reasons which make me regret that he has made such a decision -- but tis useless to name them to him, the house being his own & he the right to do as he pleases -- I must not forget that I am merely “housekeeper” & have no right to advise or make suggestions -- and it is childish I presume in me to wish that he would let me know that my efforts to make his home comfortable are better appreciated -- Of  late ithe seems to me that he is tired of me, he rarely speaks unless I address him & then he replies in no pleasant tone -- Perhaps he is disappointed in me -- I wish I were better fitted to be a companion for him and to entertain his compan more gracefully -- but i am just as God made me, the most ordinary of girls -- with neither beauty, wit or grace & only an     [60]  average amount of brains. In the art of conversation it may have been that if our brothers -- all so much older and wiser than me, had considered us worth talking to we might have been improved -- But comparing us with women they have met abroad, they find us so far beneath them in intelligence, that forgetting the fact that those women have had far greater advantages, they deem us unfit for companions for them -- Very often it has caused me very unhappy hours -- but it is useless to [?] over what cannot be helped.    Last time I wrote here was just after my return from L__g when I took our poor friend Ag home. I little dreamed then that I should hear of her death so soon -- three weeks from the day we started from here she died -- (23rd June)   Two weeks ago yesterday (2nd July) brother Tom & Caddie arrived -- rather unexpectedly although we had heard they were coming -- did not know exactly when -- Tom only stayed a week -- Caddie
[61]   is here yet & will go home with me -- Em & Sadie are also with us yet & will go with us as far as Baltimore --   “Home” -- Aug. 3rd   It seems very lonely night with Mother away in Danville, Caddie & Rob in town and Ellen & I have nothing to do but listen to the crickets which is the only sound we hear. Two weeks ago today (20th July) Sadie Em Caddie & myself in company with Charley Evans, left Norfolk, and this time that evening we were enjoying the loveliest of sunsets on the bay. We had a delightful trip as far as Baltimore -- where our party seperated & from there home we had a hot dusty ride. Charley was very kind & thoughtful, but so quiet --    We surprised Mother a little as she did not look for us until Saturday    On Monday evening Annie & Sallie arrived, but I did not see them until next morning -- oh! yes I saw Annie for when I returned from a party at Mrs Dickson’s that evening I found     [62]   Annie in my bed -- Next morning we went over to the Sem. to the Alumni Meeting, and Sallie returned with us.  How pleasant it was for us to be together again -- I hope they enjoyed it as much as I did. Tuesday evening we were all invited to Mrs Dunkle’s[?] to tea, but I could not go, nor could I attend the meeting that evening, addressed by Mr Haron & (in a poem) Jakie Walker[?]. Wednesday afternoon we attended the Ladies commencement, and as alumnae were honored with seats on the platform.    There were seventeen graduates -- Sallie’s sister Flora having the honors of the class.    After the exercises were over we went to Mary Dunkle’s[?] for tea, and from there to the college again to hear the address before the societies. It was very profound -- entirely too much so for my comprehension -- & I doubt whether a dozen of the audience understood it perfectly. The college commencement on Thursday was the most interesting I have attended for a long time -- But
[63]   what I enjoyed more than anything else was meeting so many old friends & seeing so many familiar faces. The [?] were all very good, and the validictory[sic] (by Mr Clapp) the best I ever heard. He seems to be by far the most talented member of the class. That evening we took tea at Ms Evans’ and had a very pleasant time -- afterwards attended the levee, Annie with Ned, Sallie with Mr Dritz and myself with Charley. On Friday morning Annie & Caddie drove to Danville and Sallie & I spent a delightfully quiet day at home -- That evening we were all invited to a party at Jennie Beaver’s but the girls did not get home in time & we did not go. Next morning Annie & Sallie started for home -- how I wished they would stay longer -- but Annie’s time is precious now. Caddie & I went into town that evening to make some calls & to our great surprise met our friend Jim Mitchell on his way to get a carriage to drive out here. I was very glad to see him again, and to find     [64]   him looking so well after his illness --    He stayed in town until Monday spending most of his time with us, & I was sorry to see him go. I have not a friend in the world that I value more highly than him for I believe he is sincere in his friendship for me. On Tuesday morning I took Mother to Danville -- driving the pony myself with the prospect of coming home all alone next morning. We found all well at Will’s & so nicely fixed. Jessie is a beautiful child and as yet is as sweet & good as can be. Hannah & William seem to be very happy & contented -- but the health of the former is so miserable that I fear she must soon give up work altogether -- I did drive home alone yesterday morning and a tedious dreary ride it was -- Just out of D__ I met Will Mann[?] driving over in a buggy. He told me about the party at Mrs. Geddes’ the night before which I missed by going away-- This has
[65]   been a very gay commencement -- last evening there was a party at Cousin Francis Wilson’s which “we all” (Caddie Rob & I attended. I presume it was a pleasant party but I did not enjoy it very much. Everybody seems to me to have changed -- & I do not feel quite at home with my old friends -- Perhaps the change is only in myself -- I do not know -- Now that I have seen all whom I cared to see I almost wish I was back in Norfolk -- It must be so lonely for brother Wes. He was not well when I left & I felt badly to leave him, but I have heard from him since & he is quite well again.       Home Sept 14th/65   Another hard trial past -- another sad sad parting -- though why it should still[?] weigh me down it is difficult to explain -- Weddings should I suppose be joyous occasions, but     [66]   to me they never are -- it was always hard for me to see a friend married, but Annie -- the dearest, best friend I ever had or ever will have again is very very hard to see her take upon herself the new relation, which must necessarily exclude in a measure all former ones -- Not that she will forget -- or ever cease to love those who have been dear to her, but the new life must cause a change towards her friends which will be almost imperceptible to herself. Our friendship began so many long years ago, & on my part has outlived almost every attachment -- we have spent so many happy days & weeks together throughout our school days & the years that have intervened -- & then that year of all others which we spent in Nashville together in constant companionship -- working in the same cause -- how it increased if possible our love for & confidence in each other -- but to all such joy
[67]   the end has come. Nearer & dearer interests will be hers in which we cann only partly sympathize -- and insensibly perhaps to herself her interest in us will lessen -- Another cause I have for deep sadness is that our separation today must necessarily be for a long time -- perhaps we may never meet again on earth -- God only knows! -- Our paths henceforth will be widely separated -- She expects to live in Nashville until spring (Dr G[?] being yet in the army) then will  go to Europe to remain two or three years. I will be in Norfolk -- and she says if possible they will come & see me there, but the probability is they cannot do so -- B   But perhaps it is selfish for me to grieve this -- when she is so happy in the love of one who in every respect seems to be worthy of her -- God bless them! -- & make them happy ever, as they are now -- I will not give way longer to these foolish     [68]  tears that have been choking me all day & sometimes overflowing in spite of my efforts at self-control.    It was a solemn wedding -- none being present outside of the family but her Uncle who performed the ceremony. Sallie Dysart & myself. Annie bore up very well until the parting came -- But her parents & sisters could not conceal their grief at losing such a daughter and sister. Her place in that home can never be filled.   As far as Williamsport we travelled together, and there the farewell was said which caused my heart to sink like lead, and which all my efforts cannot raise- But I cannot write more it does me no good -- tomorrow I shall I hope do better --
[69]   Norfolk Oct. 8th    I have been at home a week -- and have had no opportunity for writing until now -- but there are few events to chronicle. We left Lewisburg (Hatt, Marr, Wes, and myself on Wednesday night the 27th of Sept -- Hattie stopped at Harrisburg & we went on to Phila reaching it about nine oclock next morning. We had a short hurried visit -- indeed it was no visit at all I was kept so busy shopping for myself & Mrs Danville. On Saturday at one oclock we started for Baltimore reaching it in time for the six oclock boat and after a pleasant ride down the bay arrived at Norfolk about eight oclock Sabbath morning. Found new friend Mr Roberts (adj Gen on Pemberton’s staff) waiting to receive us) and at home “Auntie’s” smiling face watching at the door. Her warm welcome was doubtless sincere -- for she must have been very lonely. Our neighbors the Smiley’s and Godwin’s also welcomed me home -- but their sincerity    [70]   I have reason to doubt. On Monday Eve we attended a “moonlight excursion” down the bay to the ocean -- Our party consisted of Helen Smiley, Mr & Mrs Godwin, Hattie, Mr Roberts, Wes and myself and we had a very pleasant evening though we had not another acquaintance on board. It was a perfect night. The boat was a beautiful one -- a fine band discoursed fine music upon deck & below a violinist and harper made melody for the dancers -- half of the time we amused ourselves watching them -- Mr R & myself quarreled a good deal in fun of course -- he says I am the bitterest Yankee he ever saw & I call him the worst rebel. He is a strange man -- kind and agreeable -- but he must neglect his wife when he leaves her at home while he attends such excursions. On Wednesday I had a letter from home letting me know that Eunice has been sick, the children worse, and they have no girl yet to help -- Poor Caddie! thinks it is hard times and it is. But it will
[71]   not last much longer -- Today -- letters from Will and Tom to Wes, inform us that Rob will break up housekeeping on the 1st of November -- Mother will go & spend the winter at Will’s and Tom wants Caddie to go & keep house for him in Mussey[?]. She does not like the idea -- silly child-- but would rather go to school -- she would learn far more with Tom than at school -- So our family will be entirely broken up -- that makes one feel sad to think of it, yet doubtless it is best -- it would be very lonely for Mother when all the boys have left.   Yesterday I heard for the first time from Annie telling of her trip to Niagra etc. & her impressions of her new-found relatives. By this time she is in Nashville -- she seems very happy -- “as happy as can be” she expresses it -- Saturday morning our friend Let. Squires took Hatt & me over to the navy yard to see    [72]   the old Congress sunk by the Merrimac & just raised from her “watery grave” There is nothing left but the sides & bottom filled with tons of rubbish. She is of no further value except for her copper which will be sold.   Oct. 19th   I feel too miserably this morning to do anything but write -- so I will jot down a little account of a recent visit to Fortress Monroe last Friday (13).   Wes & Mr Roberts having business at Old Point at the request of some of our friends at the fort took took us over to spend the day -- Were entertained as before by our kind friend Lt. Eccleston -- & himself Lt. Wilson & Dr Bancroft did all they could for our enjoyment. It was a cold bleak day & we could not go out a great deal. Our curiosity took us to see a criminal (murderer of two women) who was hung at Hampton that morning. I shall never forget his face -- so wicked yet terrified in its expression. We visited the hospital & the [?]
[73]   to Capt. Iredell. one of his staff to take care of us, so until his (Sam's) return next evening we got along very nicely.    On Wednesday morning we drove (in the Col.'s four horse ambulance) to Fort Steadman & other fortifications in "front" of the city and in the afternoon to the scene of the mine explosion. On Thursday we visited the "Bermuda front" where the fortifications are yet entire, and one can form an idea of their strength --    On Friday we visited "Poplar Grove church" -- a rustic edifice erected by the soldiers of No Y. Eng. regiment -- it is truly a beautiful & wonderful piece of art. We took tea and spent that evening with Miss Mollie Williams one of the Col's friends, and the only young lady (citizen) in the place who paid countenance Union officers. She is a very talented interesting girl -- was very kind to me & accompanied us in most of our excursions. On Saturday our few friends & acquaintances got up a picnic for us held in a deserted   [74]   house seven or eight miles from P--g -- After dinner we visited the famous "Howlett House Battery," a splendid position commanding the country for miles. & from which there is one of the finest views I have ever seen. On Sunday we went to Methodist church --   On Monday Dr Prince & Miss Mollie the Col & myself took a horseback ride out to Fort Clifton about five miles from the city -- Just after we left the hotel my horse frightened at something & concluded to run away. He tore through the streets for about half a mile before the Col. overtook and checked him -- I retained my presence of mind sufficiently to concentrate all my energies upon the effort to keep my seat -- & that was all that saved me from severe energy [injury] or perhaps death. I did not realize my danger until returning upon the stretch saw crowds of people collected on every corner --    On Tuesday evening we started for Richmond -- arriving there about
[75]  well; neither of which I had seen before --    At half-past five we started for home in a little "tug" -(quartermaster's boat) and had a pleasant ride -- though we were nearly run into by a large steamer -- a skillfull[sic] [?] alone saved us from annihilation --    We were in the wheelhouse which only held our little party and the pilot -- Mr R & I had a nice talk (as the school girls say) and I like him better -- we have done him injustice I think in regard to his apparent neglect of his wife -- they seem to be devotedly attached to each other -- She however is very domestic and cares nothing for society while he is very fond of it & I must have it to be happy -- We all took supper at "Peppers" & a lively meal we made of it -- Yesterday I wrote a long letter to Annie-- dear child! I wonder what she is doing today. After dinner Wes took us out to the farm after persimmons [a few illegible markings and ink spots]     [76]  Sunday P.M. Nov 5th  I seat myself this afternoon to chronicle the events of my visit to Petersburg and Richmond -- terrible as was my disappointment because I could not go in the spring. I feel as if I have been fully repaid. Col. Sam Strawbridge who is in command at Petersburg wrote to Hattie that we should pay him a visit. He expected to come after us, but finding it impossible to leave, wrote for us to go alone and he would meet us at City Point -- Hattie in reply told him we would start on Monday (23rd Oct) but the letter did not reach him on time and upon arriving at City Point we were informed that he had started for Norfolk that morning. Through the kindness of the agent ^Mr Trowbridge^ of the "new line" we arrived at our destination safely & pleasantly. & were soon cosily ensconced in one of the best rooms of the "Jarret House" As soon as the Col arrived here he dispatched
[77]  eight oclock. We went to the "Ballard House" & found it an elegant place compared with Jarrett's. After breakfast next morning (Wednesday 1st Nov.) we rode out to Camp Jackson to see Capts Parker & Ganvalzoh[?] -- The former returned with us & accompanied us to Hollywood cemetery, The Capital, Libbey Prison & "Castle Thunder." From the Capital we had a good view of Belle Isle -- and driving through the streets saw Jeff Davis' mansion & the church in which he was worshipping when apprized of the surrender -- Dave came in about tea-time & accompanied us to the theatre.   Early next morning we started for home, the Col. accompanying us as far as City Point. How kind he was -- I can never forget nor repay all my obligations to him.    We had a gloomy dull ride down the river as it was raining very hard & were very thankful to get home. I found five letters awaiting me, two bundles of papers & a book    [78]  Boker's poems of the war, from Jim Mitchell -- One of the letters was from him & one from Caddie telling me that the old home is broken up -- one from Annie, one from Nellie & the other from Cousin Sadie -- One of the items of news from L--g is that Jennie Beaver & Mr Furst are to be married about the hollidays [sic] -- so they go --   Dec 31st /66--  National Hotel - Norfolk  The last day of the old year! and at this hour just a year ago I sat writing in my little hospital Sanctuary in Nashville - and a year ago yesterday I received the letter from Brother Wes that called me from my duties there to preside over his house here -- Little did I think another change would come so soon -- our little home broken up & I so soon to leave Norfolk - probably forever. It has been a pleasant year in many respects & though I have formed but few attachments there I feel sad at the thought of leaving -- Changes are always disagreeable
[79]  even when they result to our advantage.    Brother found it impossible to get a house to suit him and concluded to board for a while -- at least until he decides whether he will remain here or not. He thinks it best I should go to Phila for a while, & then live with Mother when she opens her house in the spring, until he needs me again -- but I doubt whether he will want me. Until quite lately he seemed well satisfied with his home & I think it was better for him to have one. I tried to make it comfortable for him -- God knows! it was my chief object & I thought he was satisfied until his late conduct & apparent indifference almost convinced me that all my efforts have resulted in failure. He has always been kind & generous, & I feel that I can never repay him for all he has done for me. It is a long time since I have made an entry here & much has     [80]  transpired in the mean-while. Brother Rob paid us a visit of several weeks & brother Will, Emmie & Mrs Beaver were with us a few days on their way to Petersburg & Richmond. Lt. Eccleston also surprised us with a visit of three days & surprised me more than any one by stating that the object of his visit was to learn whether I "thought well of him" -- I do think well of him but 'tis well he asked nothing more -- I could not feign ignorance of his meaning though I should like to have done so. What shall I do if he wants me to love him? I believe I cannot love! And must I grieve him too -- whom I so sincerely respect & esteem as a friend. Why is it that my heart is so cold -- that I cannot reciprocate such feelings -- Is it that I have not yet met my "fate"?   Hattie & I had a lovely week of it after Bill & party left as Brothers Rob & Wes left the same day -- the former for Danville to look
[81]   for a while in the company store & the latter for the oil-regions. Mr. Whiting slept in the house & spent most of the evening with us or we should have been very lonely indeed.    Christmas passed very quietly -- I was obliged to lie down all morning with a severe pain in my side -- and was scarcely able to keep an engagements made to dine with Mr & Mrs Daniels -- We managed to get there however & had a right pleasant time, as well as an elegant dinner.    Last Thursday night (Dec 28) Jennie Beaver & Mr Furst were married -- & before I return to Lewisburg she will have gone to her new home in Lock Haven -- There may she live long & happily.    On Thursday we moved to the hotel though we have since spent a good deal of time at the house cleaning up & packing -- Yesterday we brought Bettie (the cat) up & she is already quite at home    [82]  in our little room. Tomorrow we shall deliver the keys & then farewell! to "Armstrong Cottage!" Lt. Wilson came over last evening & will stay until tomorrow He is excellent company & I like him very much -- he is so manly & intelligent. On Tuesday afternoon if nothing happens to prevent Hatt & I will start for Phila.     Phila Feb 17th /66   How I have neglected you my poor little journal! have scarcely thought of you all these happy weeks -- For I have been happy most of the time -- and can scarcely believe that more than six weeks have passed since I left Norfolk. As we expected Hattie & I started for this city on Tuesday the 2nd of Jan'y, having no trouble on the journey except with my poor cat "Bettie" who I could not bear to think of leaving behind & Hattie kindly volunteered to take home & keep for me until I am ready to take her. She behaved remarkably
[83]  well however considering she is only a cat. I found brother Tom & sister Caddie both there, but the former only stayed a day or two. Caddie stayed until last Tuesday. Hattie remained in the city more than a week but as she stopped with Mrs Hall I saw but little of her. I missed her at first -- we had been together so long, & with all her peculiarities she is excellent company. I went first to Uncle Robert’s where I remained until last Monday (12th) then came to Uncle Tom's.    Brother Jim has been in the city twice & spent a few days, but I was not honored with much of his society or attention. He acted so strangely I scarcely knew what to make of him -- & fear his brilliant prospects -- & the flattery showered upon him by his new friends is spoiling him.   Last evening all our family were together at Will's, but I myself -- and the thought would have made me terribly homesick, but for the presence     [84]  of one who is now dearer than all other earthly friends! -- How nice & strange the feeling -- I cannot realize it yet though every day adds to my affection for him, & very gradually (too slowly he thinks) my timidity and reserve are vanishing. He thought I was cold -- how little he knows my true nature, or the depth of my love for him. He is so loving, so demonstrative, that I cannot wonder he thinks me cold -- But it will not be so always -- I feel it will not -- he shall teach me to be like himself -- It has[sic] hard to change at once the habit of years -- the lesson of self-control so easily & well learned at home has been more deeply impressed every year of my life until it has become a part of my nature -- & yet it is not -- for how often I have longed for the courage to prove by loving words and actions, how dear my friends are to me -- But something always held me back -- what it is I cannot tell but it must & shall be conquered. The caresses of those I love were always very sweet to me
[85]  but it was impossible to return them.   With gentlemen I never could be anything but reserved, even with those whom I have known all my life -- & though I love my darling so truly, & trust him so entirely, when I have to think how short a time I have known him, a strange nervous feeling comes over me that I cannot for the moment overcome & it seems as if I must not permit him to caress me. Yet if he were not so affectionate I should not love him half so dearly. -- Strange contradictory creature that I am! Sometimes too the thought comes into my mind- I am so different from him perhaps I cannot make him happy -- he will grow weary of me & wish he had loved another more congenial -- But I believe I wrong him by the thought -- else why should he have chosen me while all around him are women so much more attractive in every respect than I. No! I cannot doubt him if I did I should be miserable. Help me oh! My Father     [86]   to be grateful to Thee for the happiness I enjoy & help me be worthy of the love Thou has sent me.    Ever since I came to Phila, he has been so kind to me -- spending much of his time with me & showing me many attentions for which I am very grateful but felt a delicacy about accepting -- I could not but see what they mean & what his feelings were towards me yet while I thought I could not return them, the thought of seeing him no more made me unhappy -- and when last Friday night (18th) He told me all he felt & that he could bear suspense no longer, I found to my great surprise that at last I was "captive" -- & must surrender to the "tiny god" I had defied so long. Then only I realized what it would be to lose my darling I & I awakened to the fact that my heart was partly if not entirely his -- Then I remembered the great mistake I once made & feared it might be so again -- But his confidence
[87]  assured me & now I know there is no mistake -- Since then we have spent some happy, happy hours together, hours that pass all too quickly, for the time is coming rapidly when we must separate -- my duties will call me home -- It will be hard to leave him -- I do not like the thought but I will not be a coward when there is a duty to perform.    Yesterday I had letters from home -- a short one from Mother, but containing all I could wish her to say, knowing ^so little of^ my friend. She liked what little she saw of him but seems to have fears for his health--   Brother Will's letter is characteristic of him full of sound practical wisdom & affectionate advice for which I am sincerely grateful.  May 21st /66   My heart is so heavy tonight that I cannot do anything but write, and as I must not inflict my sad thoughts upon my friends, I take refuge in thee my long neglected journal -- Many changes have taken     [88]  place since my last entry -- Four weeks afterwards I left Phila for Harrisburg where I stayed two weeks -- thence to Danville for a week -- Muncy for a few days and then we (Tom & I) came down to help Mother move (on the 2nd of April) into her new home -- It was so terribly out of repair that we have been fixing ever since and are not fixed yet. I marvel how any one could live here with things in the condition they were. Since we have been at house-keeping we have had visits from Tom[?] Rob Will Murray. & Brother Will Emmie and the children --    Last Thursday a week ago (10th) I was surprised by a visit from Lt. E. He had written me he was coming the last of the week but I did not look for him before Saturday He stayed until Monday --
[89]  Phila July 22-  Every day since my last entry I have intended to make another, but the days go by & my resolution still unperformed. Three months more! how rapidly the time is passing & how little we realize it. They have been fraught with much happiness to me, but mingled with much suffering -- I have long feared that my health which seemed so much improved had no sure foundation -- that the disease which made my life so miserable three years ago yet remained, only waiting for a cause to trouble me again -- And I was right -- over-exertion in moving & arranging our new home & labor ^to^ which I have not been accustomed for several years, brought about the result I feared & again I began to feel my very existence a burden -- God only knows what I suffered both bodily & mentally for these few weeks, but thanks to the power, He has given me of concealing my feelings, I was enabled to hide my sufferings for awhile. At last     [90]   [two pages (four faces) have been torn out... there is a small section of partial words and phrases visible on the page that would have immediately followed page 89] [the following is a transcription of the full and partial words visible on those pages]    to [...] Ji[...] el[...] how [...] zine [...] bel [...] than [...] Your [...] it [...] with [...] the ne[...] heard [...] stop at [...] that p[...] found [...] hotel [...] brother You[...] talking [...] me (as [...] me if I [...] The thought [...]
[91]   but [...] it [...]e [...]s. [...]t [...] t[?] [...]ing me [...] if it [...] [?] very [...] inclination [...]t the [...]ly kind [...] much. & [...] should [...] too was [...] spare time     [92]   [?] b[...] w[...] si[...] st[...] bo[...] did [...] mid[...] think [...] his [...] say is [...] as if [...] I to[...] more than [...] dissatisfi[...] we all sh[...]   When [...] where I hav[...]
[93]  [...]ut [...]me [...]ye [...]me [...] -- as [...]amid [...]ew [...]ays [...]ins. & [...] brought [...] Will [...]leizzie[?] how [...] our little [...]nder shies[?] [...] was a most     [94]  kind devoted husband & father. He was drowned in the canal while bathing on Tuesday & was buried on Thursday -- Caddie's letter contained another item of news -- my dear friend Annie has a little son -- Martin Bell Stubby. How happy she must be. They are spending the summer in Vienna Austria -- A little while ago the news came of a little stranger having arrived at Mary[?] Emily at five oclock this morning -- a daughter --    A letter from brother Jim yesterday tells me that Charley Grier will be married the 7th of August & he (Jim) will be one of his ten groomsmen --    Tomorrow the Dr will come again & then I shall know whether he will let me go home tomorrow night. Last time he was here he pronounced me much better, but since then I have not felt quite so well I am very anxious to get home as Mother is not well. This is commencement week -- & last but not least -- Some one is going with me who has been well & needs to get out of the city. The
[95]  weather has been so excessively hot, that all the tonics I could take would not give me any strength -- for more than a week the thermometer ranged from °92 to °103 in the shade -- It was terrible -- Many fell dead every day by sunstroke. We who had nothing to do but eat, sleep and keep cool found it difficult to do either --   Aug. 9th --66     The past three weeks what happy ones they have been! -- He is just gone -- my darling -- & I am all alone -- I cannot help these tears -- I thought I should be brave & preserve my self-control -- I wanted him to leave me apparently cheerful but it was too much -- the thought of the happy, happy hours we have spent together -- all his love for me of which I am so unworthy -- & the uncertainty of the future. How little we know what may occur before we meet again -- If it is Thy will - oh! Father preserve this life & health & keep him through all     [96]  the temptations with which he must be surrounded--   Oct. 21st /66   My last Sabbath at home! -- How little I realize the great change which a few more days will make in my life -- that hereafter I will be a stranger at home -- my place will be vacant. One comfort I have, they cannot miss me much having spent so much of my life away from them -- and my ill-health making me of little use where I am here.    These last months at home have been very happy ones -- and oh! how I shall miss my good kind Mother & Caddie. Yet with perfect love I trust I give my happiness into the hands of my Father, & the one who is dearest of all earthly friends. Help me oh! Father to walk ever in the path of duty -- grant that I may be ever the faithful, loving wife my darling needs -- and may we bothe be true to each other, and more than all true to Thee.    Sally Dysart came last night -- dear
[97]  child -- how happy I am to have her with me once more. A truer heart, a nobler woman never breathed than she.   How I wish Annie could be here -- She will think of me on my marriage day away off in her German home (Stuttgard.) Only a little more than a year ago Sallie & I attended her wedding in her quiet mountain home--   Little did I dream then that to me the same event would come months hence! How sad I felt & how I wept at the thought of losing her -- would I have done so I wonder had I known the future contained a greater love than her's for me? She is very happy, travelling through the "old country" with her kind husband & baby boy now four months old -- How I would love to see her--   Only one more day & then my Lieutenant will be with me & then no more separations I hope will be ours for a long time to come. Brother Wes will come on Tuesday evening -- How    [98]  I wish Kim could be with us -- then our family circle would be complete once more. But he cannot come -- Has had a severe attack of cholera (how thankful we are for his preservation) and his partner having lost his wife & ^three^ children by the same dreadful disease their business has had to suffer so much that it is now impossible for him to leave. ^nearly^ All our cousins will be here from Phila and what a merry party they will be -- They want us to go along to Williamsport to attend Tom Hays' wedding which takes place next evening, but I hardly think we will go.    I almost regret our decision to be married in church & yet I believe that it is the proper place for such ceremonies. It has always been a gratification to me to see my friends married & I am desirous of giving them the same satisfaction --
[99]  Phila Nov 20th  Tomorrow it will be four weeks since we were married -- four happy -- very happy weeks -- and yet it seems as if more time had elapsed, so old-fashioned & settled as we have already become. I believe we grow dearer to each other every day and I pray that it may always be thus.   Thus far my darling has been all that I could ask -- (as I knew he would be--) the kindest most thoughtful of husbands, and I am most thankful for his assurance that I am all to him that he could wish. Today for the first time his brow wears a cloud & I cannot chase it away. Never have I wished for wealth before now- what I would not give for the power to help him -- to establish him in business for himself & thus banish every care. He had expected that some time that his employers would give him an interest in their business, but one who has capital is of course     [100]  preferred to him, and the bookkeeper being the fortunate possessor of a few thousands will become a member of the firm -- Oh! how I wish I could help him -- if I could but control the small amount that I am entitled to how willingly -- how gladly I would place it in his hands -- Now I can only be a burden, as I feared -- & the thought brings bitter tears -- I could not even tell him how deeply I feel for him, lest I should lose my self-control -- He must know he has my sympathy but of what avail is that when I cannot lighten his cares, but only increase them! I can only keep a brave heart and pray that brighter prospects from some source or other may open upon him. But to see him sad and dis-spirited, is almost more than I can bear --
[101]   Lewisburg June 22nd /67  How many changes have taken place since the last entry I made in this little book -- Seven months have passed in which there has been condensed a great deal of happiness mingled with some suffering. And how much I have to be thankful for! God has mercifully spared all my loved ones, and granted me most of the time better health that I have enjoyed for years. Then I can safely say that my darling husband & I have grown dearer & nearer to each other with every passing day -- never an unkind word has passed between us, nor do I think we have had one unkind thought of each other. No one could be more kind and devoted than he is always preferring my happiness to his own. And I think he realized how deeply- how truly- I love him -- God grant we may always be thus -- [?] in all to each other --     [102]  I have just heard that Emma Hayis (Norton) has a young daughter -- how strange it seems -- She was married on the 30th of August -- nearly two months before me. And soon, very soon, I too will have learned the pains and responsibilities of maternity --    It is very difficult to realize -- but I am very thankful and my daily prayer is for grace to fill me for the task. Not entirely without trembling do I look forward to the hour which will make me a mother -- I have suffered so much that I sometimes fear the result -- but whatever the issue may I have strength to say "God's will be done." And my darling -- may he too be prepared[?] for the worst that can come --    Last Saturday (13th) we left Phila and reached home at eight oclock that evening -- it was a fatiguing journey for me -- but I bore it much better than any of my friends expected. We found Mother & dear
[103]   little Millie looking out for us -- Caddie was at Murray but returned that night.   On Monday Will, Emmie, Mrs Beaver & Mrs Moore took dinner with us on their way home from the fishing party. Emmie seems sad & unlike herself, yet more cheerful than I expected to see her. When they left they took little Willie (who has been with Mother six or seven weeks) with them.    On Wednesday afternoon my dear husband left me -- I knew the separation would be a painful one, but until the time came did not realize how hard it would be to see him go -- I could not help thinking "what may not happen before we meet again? perhaps it may never be in this world" -- I struggled hard for composure for his sake & succeeded pretty well -- but oh! how I miss him -- his love & caresses & his constant sympathy. I know he misses me -- he is very lonely without me & the thought makes me more sad.     [104]   Dec 26th /67   Six months since I have taken time to make a record here! It is hard to believe yet I have beside the written evidence of my last entry -- a living, breathing one in the cradle before me. On the 22nd of July after a day of such suffering as none save those who endure it can form the least conception of, at half past five oclock our darling boy first saw the light of this troublesome world.    My health continued good until the last and as late as the 20th (Saturday) I took a walk of several squares with Mother and my husband who came the evening before, to stay a week or two.    I had a good deal of pain Sunday night but did not dream the true cause. They were not very severe at first & I laid on the bed & made tatting for awhile -- but I was soon past that --   Dr Wilson, Mrs McDonald & Mother were with me all day and Mr E. never left me except for a few moments -- He was a great comfort to me & I am so thankful he could be there.
[105]  Everybody thought I "got through nicely," but without the aid of chloroform I hardly think all would have gone so well. The strain on my system- never overstrong- was so great that my recovery was slow -- baby was three weeks old before I could walk across the room. Mary Housel -- good kind soul -- nursed me faithfully for four weeks then Aunt Hannah came & stayed with me until I came down here -- 22nd of September. We stayed with Mrs Stapleford for two or three days than [sic] moved to our own little house. Mr E. had had our bedroom & the dining-room carpeted & furnished -- but that was all -- and the house seemed forlorn enough. How well I remember our "first breakfast" -- eaten of the pine table in the kitchen without a table cloth -- The pans were all new & while I held baby, Mr E. scoured one -- then he took him & fried the fish & made the coffee. Then while we ate baby was consigned to a clothes basket full of straw on which our china had ^been^ packed.   Baby was not well for a week    [106]  after we moved -- and it seemed as though we would never get fixed. After a while everything was put to nights -- and then how happy we felt in our snug comfortable home -- I would not exchange it for many that can boast of every luxury that money can buy. Soon came Mr & Mrs Doolittle to board with us -- I could not at first feel quite reconciled to having our privacy thus broken into, but they spent most of their time in their own room & Mrs D I soon found was very good company -- beside being very kind & obliging & make as little trouble as possible--    On Thanksgiving-day sister Caddie surprised me by stepping in just before dinner, came down to consult Dr Meigs about the troublesome skin disease that she has been afflicted with so long, and remained with me a little over two weeks. I enjoyed her visit very much, & how I missed her when she left. I cannot soon forget how kind she was -- how many things she did for baby. Emmie & Jessie
[107]   were in the city staying down on Spring St. & I saw but little of them. I wanted Emmie to stay here but she thought they had better not & I have no doubt they were far more comfortable there than I could have made them, & Emmie would enjoy herself much better near Mrs Moore than she would have done with me.    But I sat down to tell how our first Christmas was spent & how I have been wandering back over the last six months! On Sunday John was five months old & "Papa" thought as it was his first Christmas he must have a "Christmas tree" & we decided to invite his three Aunties their husbands & children to help us celebrate it -- They were pre-engaged however so we invited Uncle Thomas Aunt Mary & Will -- Lizzie also having a previous engagement. Brother Will was so kind as to send us a nice turkey as well as a pair of ducks & one of the chickens -- the remainder of the box filled with nuts --     [108]  Friday Jan 3rd /68  Baby sat alone for the first time --   Thursday Jan 30th /68  Put him in short clothes --   April 25th  Since my last record John seems to have completely lost his babyhood -- at seven months he   began to creep and ^to^ stand up by chairs etc -- At eight he had two teeth & said "Mamma" very plainly -- & now at nine months he is a merry romping boy playing like a child of two years & though he cannot walk alone -- gets up & down with the greatest ease & travels very rapidly on "all fours" --   May 5th /68   Our little darling took his first steps alone --   Hollidaysburg May 11th/6  [Six lines of crossed out and almost entirely illegible writing]
[109]  Aug 10th /68  More than six weeks I have been at home & very quickly have they flown -- I left the city earlier than I expected or desired -- because John was not well -- A few weeks affliction of the bowels had reduced him so that he did not weigh as much as when six months old, and I know from the Dr's warning "take him to the country just as soon as possible" that the impure air & scorching heat of the city would soon complete what disease had already begun. But "Papa" how lonely it would be for him! I shall not soon forget his sad face when he turned from us at the depot, nor John's yearning cry & outstretched arms to go to him. I dreaded the journey with no companion but little know what reason I should have to dread a repetition of it. Just below Sunbury a train off the track delayed us two hours & when at last we reached the L--g    [110]  station no hack was in waiting & we had two hours more of delay -- sitting on the hard seats of the depot, holding John in my arms (no place to lay him down -- almost devoured by musquitoes [sic] we had to wait the return of the hack for the midnight train. It was with a most forlorn miserable feeling I sat there in that lonely room -- it was such a contrast to the "homecoming I had anticipated -- then I was so tired and my poor baby's haggard face showed that he too was worn out. It was some days before he recovered & then it seemed as if he was homesick -- would go to no one nor would take no interest in anything. But soon that past away & he began to gain rapidly in strength & flesh. When we came up he had ceased trying to walk alone from sheer weakness but in less than two weeks he was toddling alone all through the
[111]  house. The fr weather has been excessively hot, or was for the first four weeks after I came & all that time we were very busy sewing -- getting Caddie's wardrobe in readinous[sic] for the new position she was soon to take, & taking a little of the rust off mine. On the 23rd of July my dear husband came up -- partly to attend the wedding, &but more to see me and or precious boy from whom the separation had been almost more than he could bear in addition to his other cares & trials -- He looked thin & careworn & I know why -- days of hard labor through the sweltering July sun, and sleepless nights had wrought the change which it made me sad to see.    Some men I believe are born to misfortune & he sometimes seems to be one of them -- for struggle as he may, labor early & late as he always will it seems that "fickle fortune" has no smile for him. I pray &    [112]  trust it may not always be thus, his virtue, integrity, & industry must yet find a reward -- if not in this world, tis sweet to think hereafter all will have their due -- Help us Father to patiently bear all trials Thou seest fit to send upon us --    On the 25th Commencement exercises began but we did not attend many of them. There were not as many persons from a distance as usual & the town seemed very quiet compared with former years -- The exercises were interesting enough to those who had friends or acquaintances taking part, but all were strange to me   Our Alumna gathering was a pleasant one and it was delightful to look once more upon old school friends, some that had never returned since they first left these familiar scenes. Among the number came my dear Annie whom I have never seen since I attended her wedding & parted from her with such a
[113]   sad heart at W--t. Meantimes she has revisited Nashville & travelled for a year & a half in Europe, gathering knowledge and experience that will make her an ornament to society any where, as well as useful in any sphere she may choose. Her little boy was born in Vienna - in June two years ago, and she says is a healthy fellow the pet & plaything of all. Their home is in Cincinnati where her husband is trying to establish himself in his profession as a physician --   After commenc't we were all kept busy preparing for Caddie's wedding which took place on Monday evening Aug 3rd) Only the nearest relatives in town & a few of Caddie's & Mr C's most intimate friends were present. She wore a white nansouk dress trimmed with valenciennes lace & [?] & a few white flowers in her hair. They left next morning in the early train for Elmira N.Y. -- From there they went to Watkins -- head of Seneca lake from where they expected to go to Geneva &    [114]  Niagra before returning. It was very lonely after she left, and more so after my dear husband returned to the city -- which he did on the 7th -- Soon however the time will slip around & we will be together again in our happy little home, where there is no discord to to cause such unhappy moments as I have passed here -- here where all might be so pleasant. It is a sad thought that one must be an alien in our own Mother's house, but everything that can be done by insinuations unkind hurts & often open words is done to make me feel that I have no longer a right here -- And to think that all the cause of this unhappiness (which made Caddie's life for the past two years so miserable) should be one who herself has no right here -- a base ungrateful upstart who has received nothing but kindness from all of us -- picked up from the very gutter -- always treated like one of the family, pampered & indulged more than any of us were in many
[115]  respects -- nursed by Mother & myself through a long & most unpleasant illness to my the injury of my own health, & this is the return she makes for it all. I am made constantly to feel that I am a terrible trouble & that there will be rejoicing when I am gone. That Mother in her heart must condemn such conduct I try to feel but yet when she permits it I can only infer that it has her sanction -- I am sorry it was necessary for me to come home but it was life or death to my dear baby & I dared not hesitate Never I trust it will be necessary ^again^ for me to be a burden to them --   Hollidaysburg May 11th /69  How much of happiness to the happy & sorrow to the sad can be compressed into a few short months -- and it is well for no poor mortals that in most lives the two are pretty evenly mingled -- sometimes joy predominates & sometimes sadness for me there    [116]  have been many trying hours, and doubt-less it will always be thus while life lasts. Soon after my last record here I heard of the illness of my husband and in a day or two the word came from his sister "come home in the first train, Charley is very low" -- I knew how dangerous & after fatal is the disease (rheumatism of the heart) and with my desponding nature could not but fear the worst. I had just twenty minutes to prepare for the train -- but it was done -- And soon with the heaviest heart I had ever borne, my baby & I were on our way to Phila. For a moment I hesitated whether to wean the little darling & leave him with Mother or run the risk of taking him back to the city while the weather was yet warm & the air reeking impurities-- I quickly thought of his poor papa's disappointment if I returned without him -- he would scarcely have a
[117]  welcome for me -- so it was soon decided. Never shall I forget that day -- all the sad harrowing thoughts that rushed through my brain, are indelibly impressed on my memory -- and the hours never passed so slowly. At last -- when the train did stop -- I trembled lest we were too late -- but thank God! His Mercy always greater than our faith, interposed & the dear life had been spared to bless us still. A few weeks more & he was ready for business again and then came several months of quiet happiness -- nothing to disturb the great monotony of our lives but a short visit from Mother, and an occasional call from Emmie & the children who were spending some time in the city. Before the Calter[?] went home she urged me to visit them during the winter as I did not get over -- while home in the summer & had not been there for two years so the early part     [118]  of December was fixed upon for the trip. Just when I began to tire of preparing for it, came the news that she had gone to Clifton N.Y. to spend the winter & I [?] gave up all idea of going -- having cared but little about it from the first -- and a sad day was it for me where I was induced to change my mind again -- Brother Will with well meant kindness insisted upon my going up at any rate & John not having been well -- I concluded to go & started the last day of December --    I had only been there a few days when John took a heavy cold & became very ill with pneumonia I will pass hastily over those six terrible weeks for their record is plain enough upon my mind never to be effaced -- Poor little darling -- how he suffered! & fully conscious of it all the time. At last after weeks of anxiety & alternate hope & fear, the Dr
[119]  said he could not live & his father had to be telegraphed for -- Oh! that dark! dark! day when we watched beside him expecting every breath to be his last -- but Our Merciful Father interposed & spared the little life so precious to us -- Meantime Emmie &concluded to return with the children & soon after John's convalescence began, they arrived.   Only a few days afterwards Jessie took sick - and in spite of the tenderest care & skillful nursing, the disease (typhoid pneumonia) took such hold of her ^that it^ proved fatal. Darling little Jessie. I cannot realize that she is really gone. A deep, deep shadow fell upon all of us when we learned that she was dead -- why -- we asked must death select the brightest & best for his victims? God only knows! to save them perhaps from the snares & sorrows of this changeable life --   Six weeks from the day I     [120]  went to Danville, I returned to Phila & alone how thankful I felt to be at home once more. John was but a shadow of his former self, but he seemed so glad to be at home that he began to recover rapidly. Ginnie (whom I had left behind was at the depot to meet us and ^as^ delighted to return as John was to see her -- Soon another trouble came -- My darling husband over-worked & weighed down with care & anxiety -- had a severe hemorrhage only a day or two after I returned followed quickly by others. Then indeed my hands & heart were full -- it seems miraculous to me now how (in my situation) I endured all the work, anxiety & loss of sleep without being laid up myself -- But again God was merciful -- my husband got better & my health was spared.   For a long time I had been thinking that a change
[121]  must be made -- we were overworking ourselves & had barely a living. I knew Mr E. could not endure it much longer, so when the sale of the farm gave me an opportunity of drawing what little was coming to me of father's property, I resolved that he should have it to start him in business. About that time we had a short but delightful visit from my dear friend Annie Stubbs and after many long talks during which many plans were discussed she advised me to come to this part of the country. Caddie & Mr Clapp were written to and know what the prospects were here, & Brother Will & Emmie being in the city at the same time, were also consulted. After much writing & talking (all in a very short time for any move I was to make had to be made quickly) it was decided we should come here & Mr E. became a partner    [122]  of Mr Steckley's in the dry goods business. We had a hurried packing & moving -- & after being in our house only one week (we came here on the 25th of March & stayed a day or two with Caddie) the over-exertion proved to be too much for me -- I was laid up sick and in   after three hours my baby Emmie was born -- the 5th of April -- at one oclock in the morning (Monday) -- It seemed hard to be sick & have none but strangers around me -- but in a few days my good unselfish friend Sallie came and remained with me ten days putting her hand to everything. She was a great comfort to me & I can never forget her kindness --   Sunday P.M. July 4th    How quickly time moves on -- more than three months already in Hollidaysburg! -- Sometimes I feel settled & at home here -- then again it seems as if we
[123]  were only on a visit. I don't know how we shall like it nor how this cold damp climate will suit us. None of us are well (except Emmie who grows rapidly) John & I have colds & papa has a constant pain in his side at night, which gives me a great deal of uneasiness. When he or John re not well I have a constant ache in my heart (I can define it in no other way) -- a kind of dread that unsettles & unfits me for anything. On Thursday (the 1st) Ginnie went home and it seems almost as if there had been a death in the house -- she was so excitable & enthusiastic she kept us all alive. I miss her in a thousand ways -- not her work (for already I have a little girl who does her work better) but her company & her devotion to John. How true it is that "blessings brighten as they take their flight" & we never seem     [124]  (Emmie sat up to the table today)   to know what is best for us. We did not know what a hold she had gained upon our hearts until she was gone. And John! poor baby misses her so much -- she was so kind & good always with him, that he loved her quite as much I think as he did me. It will be long before we will let any one else do for him as she did -- She was to stay until September but since I have had to keep another girl she has seemed rather dissatisfied & sometimes did her work so badly that I had to scold, & that I guess made her homesick -- I ought to have been more patient -- I see it all now when it is too late. I wish I had more patience -- I pray for it every day, but I seem to gain nothing -- oh! that I could be a patient earnest Christian! help me Father in my ^feeble^ efforts to lead a better life.
[123-124 insert]   Concerning Admiral Farragut at reception
[125]  July 29th     How lonely it is today without dear "papa" -- and yet he has only gone for a ride and will be home this evening -- At first a little ugly feeling came up that he could go and enjoy himself away from the children and me -- but a little inward struggle (I fear outward[ly] visible too) and I conquered it -- I am glad now that he has gone for he needs the change and I can live without it. I want him to have all the pleasure he can for he dont seem happy of late, and I seem to have lost all power to make him so. He loves me I know he dont neglect me -- but I cannot help feeling that he is changed -- Maybe I vex him too much telling him my petty trials & troubles when he comes home, but what else have I to tell? & I must talk to some one for who can live without sympathy?     [126]  April 6th 1870   I have made a very long pause but the past months have been too full of work & care to allow much time for writing -- yet they have flown as rapidly as ever & I can scarcely believe it was in July I made the last entry here.    In September -- just before Mother broke up housekeeping Caddie & I took a little jaunt to Lewisburg. It was so humid I can hardly call it a pleasant one, yet I was glad to have the opportunity for one more look at the old home & kind friends -- as well as to attend the packing of old possessions & the things Mother's goodness donated us --   Then in October came Caddie's departure for their new home in W--- & many, many lonely hours afterwards. I have missed her sadly all winter having as yet made but few acquaintences[sic] whom I can call -- or care to name as friends.  If only Papa could spend his evenings at home as he did in Phila. I should not care
[127]  at all for other society -- but that cannot be -- or if Rosie had behaved as she should -- but -- -- --    Caddie has been with me now for a few weeks & in a few days will leave again -- when I shall be more lonely than ever. Rosie left us for her Aunt Lizzie's a week ago last Friday, but except her noise in the house we have scarcely missed her. Never has my patience & temper been so severely tried as during the time she was here & I am so thankful she has gone -- Her smile too can say the same -- She could bear it no longer & sent her away caring little what became of her -- I tremble for her & for her sake felt sorry to see her leave -- She has had so little moral training & I fear so little principle that I am in dread of her going very far from the right path --    Yesterday (6th) was our little daughter's birthday -- just one year     [128]  old, & so tiny. She does not walk nor even creep & has only two teeth yet she is very cunning & a very precious baby. She tries to talk -- saying "Papa" "Mama" "bye-bye" "bow-wow" "cat" -- & several other words. She has had a very bad cold of late & is very troublesome at night I have lost so much sleep with her that I feel far from well myself --   April 8th /70   Thirty years old today! How fast the years are passing -- when I was twenty I remember I thought it would be a long time until I should reach the present year but how quickly the time has flown --
[129]  Jan 29th /70 (71)   Received the rite (of babtism[sic] by immanence from Mr King -- God grant that this renewal of my vows to Thee may bring the peace for which I have so much longed -- Most earnestly do I desire to live a truly Christian life -- to be an active worker in Christ's kingdom -- for I have too long been a drone & a reproach to His cause -- Help me Father to do my whole duty to Thee to the church, to my family, & to all with whom I am associated. I know not what Mother will say -- probably it will grieve her that I have left father's church -- yet it should not -- Are we not all bound for the same Heaven -- & of what account o our Redeemer are either names or creeds!     [130]  March 29th /71   Our last night in our little home -- everything torn up & packed ready for moving tomorrow -- & how desolate the house seems with its bare floors and walls --   I am both glad & sorry -- glad because my housekeeping experience here with careless, incompetent servants has been a very trying one -- and boarding will give me relief from such cares and the rest which I know I need --     But we will miss the home privileges I know -- for there is nothing home-like about a hotel especially here. But it is a sacrifice we must make in order to lessen our expenses -- an experiment which a years trial will decide -- get out of debt we must if possible -- and I will do anything to get a fair start for my husband. He is working too hard & worrying too much, & I must put my
[131]  shoulder to the wheel with all the strength & energy I have to help him -- I had so hoped that because his health seemed so much better, he would have hemorrhages -- but only last week he had two -- I would give anything, do anything to see him right strong and well again -- but it will be as God wills--   He has seen fit to send us many trials during our short married life -- some that for a time almost overwhelmed us -- and how long they may continue He alone knows.    Oh! for patience to bear with all the meekness he requires!   Sunday A.M.  July 30th /71  What a wicked creature I am! wishing myself dead on such a bright lovely morning -- and God's own day! How unworthy I am to be called His child. What can I do, what shall I do, to make myself what I need to be? That    [132]  Danville Feb 7th /75  "Not my will but Thine" -- daily we repeat this prayer, but alas! how little we know our hearts. We think we are prepared for the worst that can come in the shape of earthly trials & misfortunes -- that with submission we will bow to the heaviest yoke we are called upon to bear -- but how different the reality! Three weeks ago tonight my dear, dear husband laid here in this room, a patient gentle sufferer -- and now he his cold and lifeless -- under the ice and snow in the cemetery at Lewisburg! On Thursday night morning, on the 21st of January - just at eleven oclock, he left us for the Better World, and I am alone in the desolate room -- while everything my eyes rest upon reminds me of his tender love, and my bitter, bitter loss--
[133]  Now I must go back in memory over the past three years or more in order to reach the cause of his illness & untimely death --    My last record was made in Hollidaysburg while we were boarding at the American house -- & what may have been the cause of my unhappiness on that bright Sabbath day I cannot remember --    All of that year and the next we labored with all the strength and energy we had to lift the weight of debt which was making business such a drag, and oppressed the spirits of my dear husband -- I took up shirt-making (without any instructions) made dresses, cloaks indeed anything I could get to do, & was kept constantly busy myself as well as employing two sewing-girls, & giving out a good deal of work. But the times grew duller than ever, the rail-    [134]  road from which so much was expected, instead of benefitting the town, did it great injury by carrying all the trade to Altoona. Still we labored on sacrificing everything -- society, home comforts, pleasures of every kind, save those connected with church & S. School work -- but all to no purpose -- debts continued to accumulate, and we began to feel that some desperate measures must be taken or all our hard earnings would be lost -- Oh! what dark days those would have been but for the constant love, and cheerful disposition of my husband. Tho I could see that his own heart was heavy, he never failed to speak hopefully to me & tried always to make me see the brightest side of everything. To pass over the trying time as rapidly as possible -- at length through
[135]  the treachery of our lawyer who pretended to have arranged everything satisfactorily, some of our creditors pushed their claims and we were advised to let the sheriff close us out -- which was done -- though we had more than stock enough to pay our debts twice over, through the kindness of a friend -- Mr Jackel a lawyer also, we were able to save something from the wreck[?] enough to have started us in business there -- but we had had enough of the place & people and left it without a single regret -- The misfortune -- & mortification consequent upon it left its mark upon poor dear "Papa," & I dont think he ever entirely rallied from it. ^Dec '73^ We went first to Phila & spent several weeks with his sister Lizzie -- waiting & hoping to hear of an opening in Altoona but no store was to be had & at last weary     [136]  of the delay Papa became restless & conc;uded he would look for a place  in Phila. A vacant place was soon found, (1132 Columbia Avenue) and we were soon in possession. Our stock was very meagre at first, but we ^gradually^ soon increased it, and for a few months had every reason to think we would soon be established in a praying business when panic (consequent upon the failure of Ja Cooke) ^September^ came unsettling business of every kind and we soon began to feel it in the dropping off of our small trade. Papa was fortunate enough however to procure a temporary situation -- to last until the holidays and with two boarders I had taken & the sewing I was able to do, we were able to meet expenses nicely. After that however, it was up-hill work - our boarders left for low-priced
[137]  lodgings -- Papa after tramping miles & miles every day for weeks in search of a situation, had to give ^it^ up the search as fruitless & although he tried for my sake to keep up a brave heart & a show of spirits, I could see that he was dropping -- growing paler & more worn-looking every day.    Another disappointment, after so many misfortunes, and such hard work to reinstate himself, was too much for his frail constitution -- One day he went down street on business & was gone longer than I expected -- returning in the evening looking so pale & so sad & saying as he passed into the back room & laid himself wearily on the sofa, "I have had two hemorrhages since I went out "one on the street, the other at Sister Lizzie's" -- These were soon followed by others, & although we had two physicians, & did     [138]  everything in our power to check them, & build up his strength, it seemed impossible, and he seemed to feel from the beginning that he would never be well -- About the middle of June he rallied sufficiently to get about again & went down among his friends in Delaware where he spent several weeks very pleasantly, mostly with his cousin P. Causey[?] where he was treated with the greatest possible kindness. They wanted him to remain longer & go with them to the sea-shore campmeeting -- but he wrote to me "I would rather come home Mamma, for I feel that I may not have much more time with you & the children"    He seemed better when he returned & looked better -- was able to walk about some & take several rides in the
[139]   street cars. It was not long though until he had a relapse, the hemorrhages being more severe than the former ones -- until he had in all thirty-three and it did not seem possible that he could survive another. At that time we began the use of homepathic[sic] medicine & the hemorrhages ceased.   For a while he seemed to gather a little strength but suffered so constantly with rheumatism that he was obliged to keep his bed nearly all the time. In September he rallied again -- was able to go down stairs, and to go out a little, and we began to once more hope that he would soon be well again -- flattering disease that it is! but very soon -- whether he took more cold or not, I cannot tell, he was taken down once more. All this time the change of the business fell upon me, but it fell off so     [140]  much after we were both absent so much from the store, that there was really very little to do -- as far as the sales were concerned. However the respon-sibility was just as great & at times I scarcely knew what to do, & with the anxiety & loss of sleep, was almost room out. Knowing this -- my brothers proposed to me that we should give up the business & remove to L---g where they would attend to our support until Mr E. should get better & able go into some- ^thing^ again. I could not af first bear the idea, but it seemed as if there was nothing else to do be done. We were not paying expenses -- I could not give Mr E. the attention he needed and attend to business too, & then there was the hope that the change & entire rest from care of all kinds might restore
[141]  him to health once more -- I shall never forget his despairing cry when I first mentioned it to him -- "oh Mama! has it come to this?" nor the tears he shed over the idea of being dependent upon those who had never cared for him --    Finding it impossible to get a house in L---g, & things becoming worse with us all the time, it was at last proposed that we should move to Danville at least for the winter, & this was at last decided upon -- Then came a hurried packing, in which I was assisted by a number of our kind friends (not relatives) & as we had been unable to sell out our stock -- it was no small labor to get everything ready for removal.    At last all was finished -- farewells were spoken & with the "God bless yous" of the dear friends who accompanied us to the depot ^Mr & Mrs Stoddard & Mr & Mrs Search^ ringing in our ears     [142]  we were soon on our way from the dear old city -- in which -- in spite of some hardships, the happiest years of my life had been spent. Had I dreamed then of what was so soon to occur -- I should never have consented to come here! My poor dear husband bore the separation from his friends with remarkable fortitude (I do not think ever he realized that he would never see them again) -- & the journey with less fatigue that we would have thought possible. The next day (we were taken from the depot right to our own home) to our great surprise he was able to come down for dinner but it must have been merely the excitement giving him unusual strength as the next day he was scarcely able to sit up -- The weather was delightful
[143]  for several weeks (we came up on the 17th of October) and he was able to ride out several times in Brother Will's carriage -- going once to "the Hill" (Mr Beaver's place) & walking through the green-house. The last time we went out -- in the early part of November -- he was so weak he could only go a couple of squares, and from that time although there were days that he would seem stronger, he steadily declined. It was very lonely for him -- so far from town, Will & Emmie away in Phila nearly all winter, & scarcely a soul to speak to night or day - but ourselves. I do not know how he could endure it so patiently --   Only one pleasant change he had in the visit of our dear friend Mr Search -- who spent a day or two with him -- & promised to come again before spring -- we little thought then that for     [144]  our dear one, the spring would never come again --    Thank God! from the beginning he had no fear of death -- he had been a faithful follower of Jesus in health & through his long illness He was ever near him -- "so near" he told me once "I feel as if I could almost lay my head upon his breast." We had many sweet talks together when he would assure me of his perfect resignation to the will of his Master & try to prepare me for the sep-aration which he felt must come, but which I could not realize. It seemed to me he must get well -- that it could not be I would be left alone & because it distressed me so much he talked less to me about it than he would have done. Once he told me of a beautiful dream he had -- that
[145]   he saw the walls of the Great City & angels robed in white walking thereon singing "bear him gently home" -- "I thought" he said "that two of the angels waited to come for me but a voice said "not yet - not yet"! "But they will come" he added with a happy smile -- "You can come to me Mama & bring the children -- let this and trying to make Mother's last days happy be your life work" -- Often he chided me for my want of faith -- for his was as perfect as that of a little child in a ford parent --    Mother & I took all the care of him night and day, but at last the loss of so much rest began to tell upon me and it was decided that I must have help -- Fortunately I thought of Caroline -- one of their old slaves now living in New York, & wrote to know whether she would come Not waiting to hear again she     [146]  came right on -- and was with us until the last -- faithfully sharing all my cares, and performing the last sad offices for our dear one with loving hearts & willing hands -- Dear faithful Jane! May God reward you -- I never can. For several weeks before his death -- his mind was somewhat affected -- imagined he had fallen heir to a large estate ^in Maryland^ and seemed well pleased that he was leaving the children & me so well provided for. The saddest part of it was that he wanted to go there -- & said he knew he would get well if we would only let him go & here he would die by inches -- His sufferings at times were terrible & towards the last it became very painful for him either to speak or swallow. For days before he died he asked me to sing "I need Thee every hour" --
[147]  Oh! how hard it was! but God gave me the requisite strength, and he was so pleased, I was amply repaid. He told me afterwards he would soon be where he would hear sweet music all the time. He was passionately fond of it & had heard none at all this winter. The next evening Jennie & John sang to him & though he was very restless before they began, he laid perfectly still all the time they were singing -- When I left him that night for a couple of hours rest he said "tomorrow at eleven oclock we must start for Maryland" -- & just at that hour he breathed his last. At Midnight when I returned to his room I found him quite delirious, but he seemed stronger than for some days & I had no idea the end was so near. When day broke however -- I saw there had been a great change -- his features     [148]  were contracted & he looked ten years older than the day before! --    About eight oclock he wanted to be moved to another bed, and we carried him to the cot on which we were accustomed to lay him while we made his bed -- and he seemed to rest quite easy Leaning to me he said -- "I think I could go to sleep now" (he had not closed his eyes for three days or nights) so I closed the blinds & sat very still hoping he would sleep for a little while -- Soon he became restless again & going to his side I noticed his hands were cold & the nails turning blue. Oh! how I wished then for some one to read & pray with him, for I knew the end was very near! I read the twenty-third psalm to him & though he could not speak he nodded to me that he heard & understood -- He tried
[149]  very hard to say something to me but I could not understand him -- Soon after he folded his hands on his breast & seemed to be praying -- as we understood the last word distinctly, "Amen" -- then he laid his head back -- the breath came shorter and shorter, and in a few moments without a struggle or a single moan the pure soul had fled to Him who gave it --    Oh! the utter desolation of that moment!     [150]  Buenos Aires -- March 4th /96  I have "unearthed" this old book among other relics of the past" and I feel "moved" to talk unreservedly to it as before -- when there was a need of relief -- a "pouring out" of joys & sorrows when there was no one to listen. Forty-one years since the last entry, and what changes they have wrought. Forty-one years of battling alone with this unsatisfying world -- yet there has been much in my life for which to be grateful.   I wonder if looking backwards to the first desolate days of widowhood I would recall the principal days of those checkered years? I will try.   As soon as possible after the last sad record -- finding the house (so isolated from every one) so unbearably lonely, I began packing -- preparing my furniture for storage until such time as it should be needed again,
[151]  and with my children went to my sister's home in Williamsport where we remained for some weeks and then Brother Will's wife invited us to spend some time with them in Danville.    In June, Mother decided to rent a cottage at Ocean Grove, and we all went with her (including Jamie[?]for the whole season or until late in September. We were visited there by Carrie & her family. Aunt Mary Seiler[?] and many other friends, and spent a pleasant summer with cousins who also had cottages there -- & now -- nearly all who composed our circle then have "passed on"    Mother, Carrie, Mr Clapp, Horace Maggie Murray, Cousin Jas[?] Block wife & daughter Gertrude -- Aunt Mary Seiler, Mrs Pollock & others all gone & my life yet spared!     [152]   When the season ended, a house was rented ^by Mother^ in Lewisburg, and we spent three years & a half there among old time neighbors and friends --    The next summer ^Aug 10th^ '76 -- Brother Will long a terrible sufferer from mercurial poisoning, was taken -- and we were indeed bereft -- not only of the best of brothers but one who had taken the place of father, husband, friend & advisor!    It was then I resolved to carry out my desire to prepare for a teacher of kindergarten -- altho' bitterly opposed by Mother, brothers and relatives  -- I wanted to be independent, to no longer be supported by them, willing as they appeared to be to maintain me and my children --

[201]      Books I have read since Jan 1st 1865.   1 The "Schonberg-Cotta Family"  2 "Early Dawn"  3 "Olive" by Miss Mulock   4 "Head of The Family"   "      "   5 "A Life for a Life"   "      "  6 Lady of Lyons & Richelieu  -- Bulwer   7 "Les Miserables"     Victor Hugo  8 "Rienzi"  --  Bulwer   9 "John Godfrey's Fortunes"          Bay and Taylor  10 "Wandering Jew"                         Eugene Sue   11 "Barbara's History"                    Miss Edwards   12 "Christian's Mistake"                  Miss Mulock  13 "The Caxton's"                                      Bulwer   14 "Gold Foil"                                         "Timothy Titcomb"   15 "The Hillyars & The Burtons"                    Kingsley   16 Confessions of an English Opium Eater - De Quincey  17 "Enoch Arden"                   Tennyson   18 "Lucille"      19 "Shirley"             Charlotte Bronte   20 "Field Dungeon & the Escape --   Richardson  21 Faith Gartney's girlhood --  22 Poems             John G. Saxe   23 Idyls of the King     Tennyson  24 Wagoner of the Alleghanies   T.B. Read
[202]   25 Our Mutual Friend      Dickens   26 Prue & I --                          G.P. Curtis [George William Curtis]  27 Lotus Eating     "          "  28 Story of Kennett           Bay and Taylor  29 Diseases of Women   Meigs   30 Dr Bertrand’s Household --   31 Sword & Gown --   32 Strathmore     "Onida"   33 Macaria              Miss Evans   34 Vale of Cedars         Grace Aguilar






The  American  Union Diary  for  1864      Published Annually for the Trade.







[15 (pre-printed material)-16]  January,                FRIDAY 1.             1864.        SATURDAY 2.    Received a note from Will, enclosing a letter from Tom giving account of his interview with Miss Dix [Dorothea Dix, Superintendent of Nurses for the Union Army] -- Of course she refused, because I am under 35. I am sorry he visited her at all --    SUNDAY 3.   Received two letters one from Caddie the other from Annie Bell & Sallie Dysart. They tell me if Dr Gilbert cannot get trans--n for me? to write to Col Slifer to get it from Gen. Couch. I have written to him & brother Will tonight--
[17-18]  January,            MONDAY 4.           1864.   Received a letter from Kate L.[?] containing the intelligence that she is now engaged to A.D. with her parents consent-- of course she is very happy.     TUESDAY 5.        WEDNESDAY 6.   Received a rather discouraging letter from Tom -- Wrote to Bro Jim telling him of the efforts I have been making to get to Nashville.     January,          THURSDAY 7.            1864.  Received a letter from Harry Hayes.     FRIDAY 8.   Mother returned from Chester today & tells me Mr Frile[?] has done nothing -- Received a letter from Mr Slifer saying Gen. C has no authority to grant passes to nurses unless regularly appointed -- Received a letter from Will - Will H - took Mother & me to Lewisburgh[?] tonight --   SATURDAY 9.  Wrote to brother Will & received a letter from Will Murray. Toll Hood spent the afternoon & evening with us.
[19-20]  January,           SUNDAY 10.              1864.  Went to Episcopal church this morning & to Methodist (11th & Jefferson) this evening to hear Dr Bartine --     MONDAY 11.  Uncle Thomas ascertained the whereabouts of Dr Gilbert today but tells me he cannot go with me -- Spent the evening at Mr Hickock's --     TUESDAY 12.   Mr Hickock went with me to see Dr G. this morning & he (Dr G) took me to Genl. Cadwallader's head-quarters where I received transportation -- both were very kind -- Wrote to Annie & Will     January,       WEDNESDAY 13.          1864.  Returned to Uncle Roberts this evening    THURSDAY 14.   Spent the day at MaggieAnn's   Received a letter from Nellie Dickson -- Wrote to Nellie & Dr Lotz in the evening--   FRIDAY 15.                                                               1*
[21-22]  January,           SATURDAY 16.      1864.    SUNDAY 17.  Went to hear Mr Conklin preach this morning -- heard an elegant sermon -- took sick in church --     MONDAY 18.   In bed all morning -- sewed very busily the remainder of the day.     January,              TUESDAY 19.      1864.   Reced letters from Dr Christ & Hunt May Seiler --    WEDNESDAY 20.   Letters from Annie Bell & Kate Slifer. Mother & I took tea at Mrs English    THURSDAY 21.   Letters from Millie Dickson Wrote to Aunt Mary & Mrs Bill --
[23-24]  January,            FRIDAY 22.               1864.   Left Phila this morning at 11:40. Mother will remain there a while -- Stopped in Lancaster over night -- Met Jim Dougherty at Downingtown so I had company to L--r    SATURDAY 23.   Came to Harrisburg at noon today -- Met Mr & Mrs Pollock from W--t on the cars.     SUNDAY 24.   Returning from church this morning was surprised to find Brother Wes with Uncle - had despaired of meeting him before starting west -- Wrote to Mother --     January,           MONDAY 25.             1864.   Left H--g at noon today -- Mer Mr & Mrs Parker on the train & rode in company with them thirty miles. Stopped at Sabbath Rest where I found Maggie Bell waiting for me --  TUESDAY 26.   Mr Bell came with me as far as Altoona today -- started at 7:20. Met Lt. Wingate -- Arrived at Pittsburg about 2 oclock started for Crestline at three & arrived there at 10.30. Conductor was exceedingly kind from P--g to C--e -- Mr Robt Scott.   WEDNESDAY 27.   Spent the night at Crestline & started for Indianapolis at 11oclock. Made the acquaintance of Mrs Capt Hagir (USA) & daughter & travelled with them to I--- missed the connection & obliged to stay all night at the Bates House -- Capt Hagir procured a room for me & was very kind --
[25-26]   January,          THURSDAY 28.            1864.   Left I--- this morning at 9:20 this morning glad to leave the filthy hotel. The cars were crowded & had a comfortless ride to Louisville -- which we reached at five P.M. No train tonight to Nashville -- & obliged to stay over tomorrow because I have no pass --  FRIDAY 29.  A long tiresome day -- wrote or commenced writing to Mother -- Visited Mr Thorn Asst Sec of U.S.S.C. who promised to get a pass & transportation for me -- Made the acquaintance of Mr & Mrs Col Frank Curtis -- spent a pleasant evening --   SATURDAY 30.   Started to Nashville this morning in care of Capt Alexander military con-ductor who was exceedingly kind. He introduced Mrs Sarnious[?] of Baltimore who was also very kind. Annie Sallie & Charley Grier met me at the depot    January,            SUNDAY 31.              1864.  Bro Jim & Charley Grier called to see us after tea -- Jim was greatly surprised Visited the wards today with Annie & Sallie -- Attended church in the rebel ward after dinner - afterwards had service in the dining-room. Mr Delow is chaplain & a very good man. I saw so much to be done that I am anxious to be at work --   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1.   Finished my letter to Mother this morning. Dr Horner called to see me this afternoon -- took my name & will try to get me a commission as soon as possible --     TUESDAY 2.   Today a number of wounded men were brought in & my ward which is a part of Annie's, was filled up so that I shall have plenty to do. Jim called this evening -- Sallie Annie & I sang several pieces in the wards tonight--
[27-28]   February,         WEDNESDAY 3.             1864.   Very busy with my duties all day -- wrote to Brother Will. Annie & I visited the Sanitary & Christian commission rooms to get some delicacies but failed -- wrote to Will     THURSDAY 4.   115 men were brought from the front & we were very busy trying to make them comfortable Mrs Wilkin called this afternoon -- Wrote to Mrs Dickson for a box of stores.     FRIDAY 5.   Several men were removed from my ward to Annie's -- Sorry to lose them but she knows better how to take care of them -- I am beginning to grow fond of my work --      February,           SATURDAY 6.           1864.     SUNDAY 7.   Attended church in the dining room this afternoon -- preaching by chaplain Defo -- Jim came up to see me tonight --             MONDAY 8.      2
[29-30]   February,             TUESDAY 9.           1864.    Very busy all day & very tired this evening, but at eight oclock the chaplain sent me to distribute flannel underclothing to the men who are going North tomorrow -- Wrote to brother Tom & commenced a letter to Caddie Hayes --   WEDNESDAY 10.   Seven of my men were sent to Louisville this morning -- some of them I was very sorry to lose Spent the evening covering crutches    THURSDAY 11.   This evening Jim took me out to Mr Wilkins -- met with a very warm reception & found them according to southern custom waiting tea for us -- They were exceedingly kind & I spent a delightful evening --      February,           FRIDAY 12.            1864.   Annie & I went down street this afternoon -- called at the Sanitary commission store & at Mrs Harris but found no one at home -- We sang in the rebel ward this evening --   SATURDAY 13.   Met the noted Mrs Harris this morning & formed a rather unfavorable opinion of her. Also met Mrs Hopkins -- Finished a letter to Caddie Hayes- received one from sister Caddie & a note from Mother -- Annie Sallie & I spent part of the evening at Dr Horner's.   SUNDAY 14.  Wrote to Caddie this morning & to brother Wes this evening. Mr Poucher (past chaplain) preached in the dining room this afternoon -- Met a tract agent from Penna
[31-32]   February,           MONDAY 15.           1864.   Sallie & I went down street this afternoon to do a little shopping & to get some Sanitary stores. Met Mrs Hopkins & Mrs Tyson & other ladies who brought us home in their ambulance  TUESDAY 16.   Took sick this morning & was not able to do much all day -- The weather grew suddenly cold last night & we find it difficult to keep ourselves comfortable --     WEDNESDAY 17.   Sick in bed most of the day.     February,          THURSDAY 18.          1864.  Returned to my work this morning & found my men apparently very glad to see me. It made me happy to hear them say they had missed me -- proves that I have been some use to them if ever so little.  FRIDAY 19.  Jim came up to see us tonight. he is not well & I fear he has too much to do.          SATURDAY 20.              2*
[33-34]  February,             SUNDAY 21.             1864.  Went to "church" in the dining-room as usual today & to post chapel this evening --     MONDAY 22.   Mr Nichols died this morning one of my first patients -- He was from near Detroit Mich. & has a wife & one child -- He was badly wounded & suffered terribly -- Received letters from Mrs Dickson, Nellie & Dr Lotz --   TUESDAY 23.   Wrote to Aunt Mary Seiler    February,        WEDNESDAY 24.           1864.    THURSDAY 25.   Received a letter from Mrs Dickson this morning telling me that my boxes would be sent by the San. Com. Recd letter from a patient wishing me to send his descriptive list -- Mr Walter Jim came up this evening bringing me a letter from Tom.  FRIDAY 26.   Found Mr Walter's descriptive list & had it forwarded to him this morning -- Wrote to him this evening announcing the fact --
[35-36]  February,          SATURDAY 27.           1864.  Recd a letter from Caddie this evening, containing a photograph of herself, Mam & her sister -- taken in a group. Commenced a letter to Harry Hayes --     SUNDAY 28.   Heard Chaplain Delo preach tonight in the dining room -- Charley Grier came up & went with us to meeting -- Jim spent the evening with us -- intended to go to church but it was too stormy --   MONDAY 29.   Dr Horner sent a letter to me to answer with reference to one of my patients- Patrick McTigue- his parents know nothing of his whereabouts & want to know his condition. He has a ball in his lungs & cannot get well.     March,           TUESDAY 1.                1864.  Wrote to Mr Spencer about Patrick McTigue Miss Wilkin sent me a tiny boquet [sic] -- Several new patients were brought in today -- A Number were sent from my ward to the other division -- only fifteen of the first patients I had in my care now remain -- Snow fell today to the depth of two inches --  WEDNESDAY 2.   Recd a number of new men today & found one among them a mere boy only fifteen years of age. Two of the men who came in yesterday were removed to the pest house today - both had small pox. Wrote to Mother tonight --   THURSDAY 3.   Finished my letter to Harry today commenced on Saturday evening-
[37-38]   March,             FRIDAY 4.                1864.     SATURDAY 5.   This afternoon quite an excitement was raised by the arrival at our hospital of an ambulance containing a soldier girl who was taken prisoner at Chickamauga served three years in 51st Illinois regt She was taken to no 11 officers hospital   SUNDAY 6.   Recd a letter from Will this morning -- He & Emmie are in D--e [Danville] & are well. Attended church afternoon & evening -- Charley Grier & Bro Jim were up to see us--   This morning at seven oclock Emmie's baby was born   March,           MONDAY 7.           1864.     TUESDAY 8.   Wrote to Kate Slifer & Nellie Dickson     WEDNESDAY 9.   One of my patients died last night making the second since I have been here. He was only brought in a day or two ago almost dead with Pneumonia. Went down street this afternoon -- Visited Indiana Sanitary commission of whom Col Shaw is chief --
[39-40]   March,         THURSDAY 10.           1864.     FRIDAY 11.   Another of my patients died last night of black measles -- belonged to the regular army. Annie Sallie & I visited the solder girl Eliza Hock[?] alias Frank Miller at the officers hospital this afternoon --   SATURDAY 12.   Mrs Horner called yesterday and told us Dr H-- has been ordered to the front - we all feel very badly about it -- Wrote to Emma Hayes -- Jim came to see us tonight --     March,            SUNDAY 13.      1864.   Annie & I went down to the other division to see some of our patients this aternoon [sic] -- Dr Applegate called to see the girls --     MONDAY 14.   Recd a letter from Mother today containing the news that Emmie had a little daughter last Sunday morning & is doing well.          TUESDAY 15.                                               3.  One of my boys Jesse Ingle of the 10th Ill. died this morning at three oclock. Another of them will I think hardly live over tonight -- Poor boys! How hard to see them die so far from home & loved ones --
[41-42]   March,         WEDNESDAY 16.     1864.   Another of my boys gone. Thaddeus Tallotson of the 15th regulars- from St. Johns, Mich. a sweet little fellow -- his disease inflammation of the brain -- Received a letter from Aunt Mary - sent one to Dr Lotz  THURSDAY 17.   Dr Hackenburg's wife arrived this evening -- a very intelligent ladylike person -- & his little girl. Commenced a letter to Caddie -- Jim came to see us in the evening. Annie & I attended major meeting at the post chapel --   FRIDAY 18.   Finished Caddie's letter this evening -- Recd letters from Will & Maggie Murray - the latter is with Will at Martinsburg. Had a note from Will & his little silver watch --     [top portion of page ripped out]    SUNDAY 20.   Attended church at post chapel this morning heard Mr Kremis[?] preach- he is sent here by Bishop Lewison[?] to reestablish the M.E. Church -- Recd a letter from Harry Hayes. Another man died this morning belong to the [?]th Mich. cavalry. Spent the evening with Fanny the soldier girl --   MONDAY 21.
[43-44]   [top portion of page ripped out]    WEDNESDAY 23.   Recd a letter from Caddie Hayes     THURSDAY 24.   Another ^8th^ death in my ward today -- a man who was brought in yesterday almost dead with chronic diarrhea. Went to prayer-meeting at the post chapel this evening --     March,            FRIDAY 25.          1864.   Last evening a boy was brought in about 5½ oclock in the last stages of consumption - belonged to the 15th Michigan this morning at 8 he died   Recd a letter from Caddie Hayes     SATURDAY 26.   Another man died this morning of pneumonia -- He seemed better for a while & we thought he would recover. Mrs Wilkin sent me a beautiful boquet [sic]. Wrote to brother Tom - Recd a letter from Harry Hayes   SUNDAY 27.                                                              3*    Recd a letter from Em Hayes enclos ing her photograph -- Visited the cemetery this afternoon - went to church at the post chapel this evening Charley Grier called to see us --
[45-46]   March,            MONDAY 28.      1864.  Recd a letter from Caddie and another from Mr Shiner[?] Dr Longshore[?] & Capt Smith called to see us this afternoon -- Albert Watson stopped after [?] at the door on horseback his regt is encamped near the city   TUESDAY 29.   Another death in my ward this morning of pneumonia His name was George M. Hoober of the 31st a sweet boy from Newark Licking Co. Ohio -- Wrote to Mother     WEDNESDAY 30.   Lt. Winter[?] arrived this morning to the great delight of Annie & Sallie & I do not wonder .he is a noble speciman [sic] of the genus homo. He & George & brother Jim spent the evening with us -- Had a photograph taken - hospital scene     March,         THURSDAY 31.               1864.  Made up our minds to go to Murfreesboro this afternoon -- Dr Longshore called to see us accompanied by Mr Bray & Capts Smith & Parker -- The two latter went down in the train with us -- arrived M-- half past eight in the evening -- Lt. Mintic stopped there with us. Stayed all night with Miss Dada & Miss Hall --  FRIDAY, APRIL 1  Found it raining hard this morning -- could not go out to see anything - spent most of the day at No 1. with Dr & Mrs Welsh & Dr Woolen -- called to see Miss Little at No 3. Went to major meeting at C.C. -- rooms in the evening -- (Dr Bartholow took charge)  SATURDAY 2.   Intended to go to the battlefield this morning but were disappointed -- Lt. Winter[?]left at 12 -- Sallie & I started in the freight train at 22 -- Chaplain Earnshaw[?] saw us to the cars -- Annie stayed behind -- all the boys seem glad to see me back
[47-48]  April,           SUNDAY 3.           1864.   Another death in my ward -- John B. Hornbeck London Madison Co Ohio - 4th O. Cav. aged seventeen. leaves a wife & child to mourn his loss -- Jim spent the evening with us.    MONDAY 4.  Received small package by mail from home -- & letters from Caddie, Will & Jim Mitchell Annie returned from Murfreesboro this evening -- Sallie Dr & Mrs May & I called to see Dr & Mrs Horner -- they leave tomorrow for Phila   TUESDAY 5.   Another death in my ward of measles John Hornbeck of London Oh. age 17 -74[?]th O. Cav. It is discouraging to have so many die --    Dr Bartholow threatens to turn us out of our rooms but we cannot think that he will execute it --     April,          WEDNESDAY 6.          1864.   Reci'd letters from Tom & J. Peterson one of my patients who was sent to Louisville -- Wrote to him & expressed money in my possession belonging to him. Annie & I visited the San. Com -- & did some shopping this afternoon.     THURSDAY 7.   Miss Babcock came down this afternoon for one of us to go & take charge of Fanny while she paid a visit to Chattanooga -- As I was not well it was decided I should go - went up after supper -- Had a long chat with Dr Green about his relatives in Lewisburg --   FRIDAY 8.   It seems quite lonely here after taking charge of so many -- Fanny had her wound burnt with caustic this morning & cried bitterly -- poor child she has suffered everything with that wound of hers --
[49-50]  April,           SATURDAY 9.       1864.  This morning it was necessary that Fanny's wound should be burned again, and as she said she could not bear the pain the Dr administered chloric ether -- it was a severe operation & prostrated her completely -- Went down to see my patients a little while this evening --   SUNDAY 10.   Fanny is a little better but has been in bed all day -- expected one of the girls to come & take my place but they have disappointed me. Received a letter from Caddie -- all well at home-    MONDAY 11.   How lonely it seems here -- if it were not for Mrs Bangs (whose husband is here wounded) & Dr Green I could hardly endure it -- Wrote to Will Murray today -- Heard of the death of one of my nurses whom we called "Kentucky" -- small boy    April,           TUESDAY 12.            1864.   Certainly expected Miss Babcock this morning but she did not come. Fanny is better & has been up all day -- Wrote to Caddie Hays & received a letter from bro Rob mailed the 1st of March --    I have been wondering why he did not write to me --   WEDNESDAY 13.  Sick this morning - Miss Babcock did not come but I could stay no longer so I came home after dinner --    One of my boys John Culliver died today -- A number of our kitchen boys John Jimmy Charley & others were sent to their regiments today --   THURSDAY 14.
[51-52]  April,            FRIDAY 15.         1864.  Recd letters from Cad, Wes, Mr Lyken[?] Nellie Dickson & a note from Al. Watson  -- wrote to Caddie -- Mrs Wilkin called this evening & invited Annie Sallie & me to take tea with her tomorrow evening. Another of my patients died today --   SATURDAY 16.  Had a delightful time at Mr Wilkins this evening -- no one there but Charley Grier brother Jim Miss [?] & myself   [2.5 lines either erased or almost completely faded]  SUNDAY 17.  Wrote to Will Murray    April,            MONDAY 18.         1864.  Another of my men died today -- Butler Williams a refugee from Ala -- Annie received an order from Dr Bartholow appointing her Matron-in-chief of this hospital -- Went to see Fanny this afternoon & Miss B- told us some dreadful tales about her--   TUESDAY 19.   Wrote to Harry Hayes.     WEDNESDAY 20.  Wrote to brother Rob --
[53-54]   April,          THURSDAY 21.               1864.  wrote to Jim Mitchell  Received a letter from Mrs Hoover sister-in-law of a boy who died in my ward enclosing his photograph -- a most excellent likeness -- sweet boy how hard that he should die so young. It was a kind letter & filled me with encouragement to persevere in my duties --   FRIDAY 22.   This evening Dr May went with us to the reservoir and a delightful walk we had -- From it there is a grand view of the Cumberland river & the country for miles -- Wrote to brother Tom --   SATURDAY 23.   We had a visit from Miss Harris this afternoon --   Our new surgeon in charge has already been relieved -- and Dr Stanford appointed as his successor --     April,             SUNDAY 24.            1864.  Received a letter from Dr Lotz enclosing his photograph -- wrote to Mother -- heard chaplain Van Sanford preach in the dining room this afternoon -- when to church at the Post chapel this evening --   MONDAY 25.  Wrote to brother Tom enclosing Annie's photograph -- This afternoon Sallie Annie Miss Lemon[?] & I visited hospital No 8 --     TUESDAY 26.
[55-56]   April,         WEDNESDAY 27.         1864.  Charley Grier called to see me bringing Will Iddings with him -- The latter has changed so much that I should never have recognized him at all -- has been in the service three years --   THURSDAY 28.    FRIDAY 29.  Received a long letter from brother Tom -- This afternoon Dr & Mrs May Miss Lemon Annie Sallie & I visited the Capitol colored camp & Cumberland hospital- had a delightful time -- Dr Green & Miss Babcock called this evening Dr Stanford took charge today    April,          SATURDAY 30.      1864.    SUNDAY, MAY 1.   Had a letter from Harry Hayes              MONDAY 2.          4*  Recd a letter from Caddie full of home news -- Dr Freeman an old friend of Sallie & Annie took tea with us & went with us to a S. School exhibition in the little church near us -- a miserable affair --
[57-58]   May,           TUESDAY 3.               1864.   Recd a letter from Peterson -- one of my old patients thanking me for sending his money etc --     WEDNESDAY 4.   Recd a letter from Kate Slifer last evening. also an order from Dr Stanford making me chief nurse of ward 1. Jim called and spent the evening with us -- Early in the evening we called at "No 2" to see Dr Herbst & wife --   THURSDAY 5.   "Fanny" was moved to our room today she seemed delighted with the change & for her good we are glad to have her, though we are a good deal crowded.    Recd a letter from Caddie Hayes.    May,             FRIDAY 6.            1864.   A great many (found hundred) sick and wounded men were brought in from Chattanooga tonight- more than could be accommodated -- We had a great time getting supper for them -- Recd a letter from Will --   SATURDAY 7.   Very busy all day- the most fatigu-ing day I think I have ever had --    SUNDAY 8.   Recd letters from Caddie, Rob & Emma Hayes -- went to church in the dining room this after-noon -- A great many of those who came in on Friday were sent of [sic] this afternoon --
[59-60]   May,             MONDAY 9.      1864.   Letters this morning from Dr Christ (enclosing his photograph) & Jim Mitchell -- all my correspondents are writing at the same time -- Sallie & I visited the Sanitary this morning --   TUESDAY 10.    WEDNESDAY 11.   Recd a letter from Al. Watson this morning -- Jim spent the evening with us. Made some Found out some things about Fanny today which makes us almost regret having had her moved to our rooms    May,          THURSDAY 12.             1864.     FRIDAY 13.   Frank Sherman gave me a beautiful boquet this morning Started our new diet system this morning -- An order came taking away all our nurses & attendants -- Received my box from home full of clothing --  SATURDAY 14.   Recd letters from Tom & Mrs Moore sec of S. Commission Phila --
[61-62]   May,             SUNDAY 15.          1864.     MONDAY 16.  Recd a letter from Lizzie Dickson enclosing her photo -- & a letter from Caddie giving me an account of matters & things at home --     TUESDAY 17.  We had an arrival this evening another soldier girl calling herself Annie Miller who says she enlisted in the 101st Ohio, Co C under the name George smith[?] -- We do not believe her stories but must keep her over tonight     May,        WEDNESDAY 18.            1864.   This afternoon Capt Turner who found Annie came to see her & to take her to No 2 -- Two of our boys "the bugler" & little Johnny gave me their pictures today -- Heard of the death of Col John nurses and           Mitten Opp  THURSDAY 19.  A number of our boys were sent to Louisville today among them my favorites Frank Sherman & Jimmy Chaffee- the former gave me his ambrotype -- M[?] Hastings called to see me Sick all morning --   FRIDAY 20.   Today we moved our quarters -- find them very pleasant -- "the boys" helped us move -- A great many wounded were brought in today from the front --
[63-64]  May,            SATURDAY 21.          1864.   Annie went to a S. School picnic leaving Sallie & I to bring "order out of chaos" -- Recd a letter from Caddie telling me Dave Canvalzoh[?] & Milton Opp were killed in the late battle -- O God! how many noble hearts must cease to beat before this strife is ended!  SUNDAY 22.   Wrote to Brother Rob -- Jim called tonight with Capt Post -- the latter promised to take me out riding on horseback soon --     MONDAY 23.   Wrote to Nellie Dickson -- Expected to go to Mr Wilkins this evening but were disappointed -- Annie & I visited the Sanitary Com. this morning      May,            TUESDAY 24.         1864.    Recd a package from Will by mail this afternoon containing a very pretty lawn dress -- recd a letter from him tonight -- Annie &     WEDNESDAY 25.  Wrote to Brother Will -- A large number of wounded were brought in from the front & I have been very busy all day --                         THURSDAY 26.        5.      Recd a letter from Jimmy Chaffee
[65-66]   May,             FRIDAY 27.           1864.  Recd a letter from Ms    SATURDAY 28.    SUNDAY 29.   Dr Stanford send an order to Annie concerning Sanitary stores, most insulting to us all, Charley & Jim Grier called, the latter just returned from Lewisburg Mrs Wilkin sent by Jim a beautiful basket of flowers --      May,            MONDAY 30.          1864.   This morning Annie resigned & Dr Stanford insisted upon my taking her place - when I refused he asked Sallie & appointed her in Annie's position -- we all feel like leaving --   TUESDAY 31.   This morning Dr Stanford & Annie had a long talk & he concluded to modify his order causing us to feel better -- Annie will go home for a while --     WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1.
[67-68]   June,          THURSDAY 2.          1864.   Wrote to Mr Aiken this evening --     FRIDAY 3.   Had a note from Caddie this morning -- After tea Annie & I walked out to Mr Wilkins & came home laden with flowers- their grounds are beautiful now --     SATURDAY 4.     June,             SUNDAY 5.          1864.  Had a letter from Caddie -- went to church in the dining room this afternoon evening Jim & Dr Turner called -- A man died in my ward this morning wounded in the bowels--                Aikland   MONDAY 6.   Recd a letter from Mr Somerville wrote to Caddie -- This afternoon Dr & Mrs May, Dr Freeman, George Bascom Annie, Sallie & I visited Col Aiklands place & Fort Negley in an ambulance   Had a delightful ride --     TUESDAY 7.           5*  George started for home today his term of service having expired how we shall miss him --
[69-70]  June,          WEDNESDAY 8.          1864.    THURSDAY 9.    FRIDAY 10.  Received a letter from Mother enclosing Ellen's photograph -- the child has grown so much I hardly know her -- Wrote to Mr Somerville --     June,           SATURDAY 11.      1864.  One of my patients Robt Settell 19th Mich. had his arm amputated today -- was afraid he could not bear it but he bore it remarkably well. Recd a letter from Mr Poyn, brother of one of my boys--  SUNDAY 12.  Chaplain Poncher came for us in an ambulance to go to church this morning rededication of a M.E. church by Mr Kremer -- Sat in the choir which seemed quite natural -- Wrote to Harry Hayes --   MONDAY 13.  Made up my mind this morning to go home with Annie. visited the medical directors - No 8 - San Com - & Dr Stanford asking to be relieved -- Evening went around & said goodbye to all my boys a most difficult task -- can hardly bear to think of leaving them --
[71-72]  June,           TUESDAY 14.              1864.  After considerable trouble succeeded in getting started this morning -- Charley Grier met us at the depot & introduced us to Capt Cotton (7th Pa Cav.) who proved to be a most agreeable companion during the journey -- reached Louisville about 5½ oclock -- stopped at Galt House --    WEDNESDAY 15.  Went to the S. Com. this morning & from there to the Med. director to get transportation. found we could not go in the boat so left in train at 1½ arriving in Cincinnati at midnight -- stopped at Burnet Home   THURSDAY 16.  Wrote to Mrs Grier At San. Com. Annie & I started out this morning to find George Bascom but failed -- found where his father boarded -- nothing further -- spent the whole day in Cincinnati leaving for Pittsburg at 10 oclock P.M.     June,            FRIDAY 17.            1864.  After a long tiresome journey arrived in Pittsburg at five oclock this afternoon & stopped at Mr Bell's who received us very kindly -- Evening he took to the Sanitary fair while I had the pleasure of seeing Mrs Wade --   SATURDAY 18.  Wrote to Mrs May & to Mr Somerville. My rheumatism pre-vented my going out at all today -- Annie has been very busy writing the sanitary committee --     SUNDAY 19.  Confined to the house all day with rheumatism
[73-74]  June,           MONDAY 20.           1864.  Left Pittsburg this morning reached Sabbath Rest about one oclock --    TUESDAY 21.    WEDNESDAY 22.   Started for home this morning Mr Bell went with me as far as Huntingdon -- Met Mr & Mrs Cooke[?] at Lewistown -- & Mr & Mrs Candor at Marysville. Gave our folks a great surprise --     June,           THURSDAY 23.              1864.    FRIDAY 24.     SATURDAY 25.   Will & Emmie came over bringing baby Jessie & a darling little thing she is -- Kate & Clara Slifer Jimmie Beaver & a whole crowd were out to see me
[75-76]  June,            SUNDAY 26.             1864.  So wary that we could not go to church today -- several friends came out to see us --     MONDAY 27.  Emmie & I called to see Mrs Huff[?] this morning. Mary Hayes & baby & Jimmie beaver spent most of the day -- Will & family went home tonight -- Recd letters from Sallie Dysart, Albert Perry & Annie Bell --   TUESDAY 28.   Started for Phila tonight in company with Oliver Jones -- expected to meet Annie at Harrisburg but missed the connection & her at the same time -- waited three hours at H--g    June,        WEDNESDAY 29.            1864.  Reached Phila at 11 A.M. -- went immediately to Uncle Roberts -- After dinner Laura & I went down to the fair but could not get in -- Called at Mrs Elliotts then went to see Annie at Mrs Riddle's -- they persuaded me to stay for tea there Mr Bell Annie & I went to the Art Gallery of the San'y fair & spent the evening --   THURSDAY 30.   This morning Annie & I visited the Com. rooms -- then Mrs Grier Chairman of the San. Com. -- did some shopping called at Uncle Toms -- hunted transportation & at half past 10 P.M. started for L--g [Lewisburg] -- received a letter from Sallie Dysart --                                FRIDAY, JULY 1.     6.  Reached home about seven oclock this morning -- sent for Clara to come over & stay with Annie   Stayed at home all day --
[77-78]  July,             SATURDAY 2.              1864.  This morning & Annie & I went to Danville to visit Will & Emmie & returned at four this evening -- had a very pleasant visit --     SUNDAY 3.  Went to church this morning afterwards went out to Slifers for dinner -- visited my class in S. School in the afternoon Tom came home last night     MONDAY 4.  This morning Tom & I took Annie to the depot & afterwards drove to Milton & made a call -- spent a very quiet day -- Sent a letter to Sallie Dysart --     July,            TUESDAY 5.             1864.  Wrote to Albert Perry     WEDNESDAY 6.       THURSDAY 7.
[79-80]   July,             FRIDAY 8.           1864.  Sewed busily most of the day spent two hours at the dentists After tea Maria Grier & Bill Vorse called -- Afterwards Dr Lotz and his brother Tom -- & Reese[?] Dill -- Kate & Andie --   SATURDAY 9.   Ag Dale spent the afternoon Leney[?] Bliss called -- Gussie & Gwinnie Evans - Merle Duncan & Maze Howard - Merril Cline[?] & Jennie Beaver, Nellie Darkson & Mr Spifford & Aunt Eliza  SUNDAY 10.  Did not go out to church at all today. Wrote letters to brother Wes & Jim Mitchell. Evening Alf[?] Hayes & Uncle James & Aunt Jane, Prof Bliss Andie Dill & Kate Slifer called to see me --    July,            MONDAY 11.         1864.  This morning Bill Vorse, Lide[?] Houghton & I started for Nashville. Going to Maysville "Gen Mitt & Com. Forte" were our opposite neighbors. Reached Pittsburg at one oclock tonight found Annie waiting for us having taken berths in a sleeping car. From Altoona to P--g had very agreeable company -- Mr Jack Marin from near Boston --   TUESDAY 12.   Reached Crestline at 9½ oclock where we breakfasted & changed cars for Cincinnati -- the latter place we reached at five this afternoon -- found Gordie Lockhardt & Minnie[?] Lincoln waiting at the depot -- George Bascom met us at the hotel --  WEDNESDAY 13.   Called to see Minnie[?] & Gordie this morn left Lide & Bell there -- Annie & I took passage in the mail boat & a most delightful trip we have had. ^met^ Mr Christly of Springfield O. a most splendid musician --
[81-82]  July,          THURSDAY 14.             1864.  Awoke this morning to find ourselves in Louisville -- Went to the Galt house had breakfast & went to see Mr Thorn San. Sec. then to the Post commander's & Med director's to get our pass & transportation. took the evening train for Nashville George Bascom came with us.  FRIDAY 15.   Arrive in Nashville at seven this morning & went immediately to No. 8. where we found Sallie Dysart & all our "traps" she having had them moved down -- spent the day looking round -- Jim, Charley Grier & others called to see us --   SATURDAY 16.  I went through the wards with Sallie today who showed me all the worst patients   Mrs May came to see us this afternoon & took tea with us.     July,            SUNDAY 17.           1864.   Commenced work in earnest this morning -- having been assigned three wards 1st 4th & 5th shall have plenty to do. Attended church in our little chapel up stairs afternoon and evening --   MONDAY 18.   This morning Annie Sallie & I went to "No 1" & took dinner with Dr & Mrs May -- went in to see my old patients all of whom seemed so glad to see me that I felt quite happy   TUESDAY 19.  This afternoon we had quite a little party to tea. George Bascom Dr & Mrs May and brother Jim -- afterwards Dr Freeman and Charley Grier came in and spent the evening
[83-84]   July,         WEDNESDAY 20.          1864.  This afternoon Annie & I went to the depot to meet Bell and Lide and when she arrived escorted them to No 12. She would like to be with us & I wish they could --   THURSDAY 21.   Received a letter form for Wes. Lide & Bell came to see us tonight -- they seem well pleased. Stewards Conand[?] & Mr. McCombrie called this evening --   FRIDAY 22.     July,          SATURDAY 23.          1864.   This afternoon Sallie was presented with a watch chain belt & pin by Dr May in behalf of the patients attendants & Surgeons of "No 1" -- Sallie was completely taken by surprise -- Mr and Mrs Taylor called tonight -- Jim brought me a letter from Jim Mitchell  SUNDAY 24.   Sick this morning & could not half attend to my duties today-- Mr Taylor invited me to go to church this evening but did not feel well enough --    MONDAY 25.   This afternoon Sallie started for home -- Annie & I took her to the depot. She will have company as far as Cincinnati -- Dr Applegate We will miss her greatly
[85-86]  July,            TUESDAY 26.        1864.    WEDNESDAY 27.     THURSDAY 28.     July,              FRIDAY 29.       1864.   Two of my patients died today -- McClelland Hindman 78th P. V-- & William Kendershot 1st Ills. Artillery     SATURDAY 30.     SUNDAY 31.
[87-88]   August,            MONDAY 1.         1864.     TUESDAY 2.     WEDNESDAY 3.   Rcd a letter from Will enclosing ten dollars from himself & five from Miss Emily Wilkins to be spent for the soldiers     August,          THURSDAY 4.       1864.   Annie & I went to Presbyterian church this morning & heard an excellent sermon by Mr Allen the pastor --  Letters from Caddie & Will Murray   FRIDAY 5.  Recd a small box from Miss Wilkins filled with nice [?] [?] etc - Letters from Sallie tonight -- She is having good times -- Mrs May spent the afternoon with us --                  SATURDAY 6.                    7  Charley Grier & Mr Bray called to see us last evening -- the latter promised to send us frames for mosquito bars[?]
[89-90]  August,             SUNDAY 7.         1864.  Annie started to S. School this morning -- attended service in the chapel this afternoon. This evening Dr F--n [Freeman] went with us to Presbyterian church -- Dr McIntyre dined with us  MONDAY 8.   This afternoon Mrs Taylor wife of our surgeon in charge called with Mrs Ely the new lady nurse -- both seem pleasant enough, but I am afraid the latter will make trouble for us   TUESDAY 9.  This morning Mrs Ely came up ready for work -- thinks the 5th ward will do for a beginning so I must give it to her -- Recd a letter from Tom enclosing $10.00 for the soldiers --     August,      WEDNESDAY 10.        1864.  Mrs E. thinks the 5th ward is not enough for her and wants the 4th -- what an endless talker she is! -- she also wants board in the hospital --     THURSDAY 11.   Recd a letter from Rob and a lot of Tribunes -- Wes is at home and brought a mockingbird Aunt Mary, Em & Will Hayes are in L--- [Lewisburg]    FRIDAY 12.   Recd a letter from Caddie enclosing 20.00 from Wes -- also a letter from an old patient at No 1 -- Annie & I called to see Mrs Taylor this morning -- Bell Vorse came up to stay all night with us Lide having gone to Ind. Dr Applegate called --
[91-92]   August,          SATURDAY 13.        1864.   This evening Dr Freeman Annie & I took tea with Dr & Mrs May had a very pleasant time. Went into the hospital to see some old patients all seemed glad to see me --   SUNDAY 14.   Five patients in 1st ward died today -- one bled to death -- How sad it is to see so many die when we think of the friends who are left to mourn. Drs Freeman & McIntyre took us to Presbyterian church tonight --   MONDAY 15.    August,           TUESDAY 16.       1864.     WEDNESDAY 17.             THURSDAY 18.     7*  Annie started for Louisville this afternoon & I have had a busy time of it attending to her duties added to mine -- Brother Jim came in to see me -- Wrote a letter to Caddie Hayes
[93-94]   August,           FRIDAY 19.      1864.   Have had a very busy day of it & feel very tired tonight but I feel that I have not neglected a single duty. Mr Bernant, Steward McCrombie & Dr Freeman have been here tonight --   SATURDAY 20.   Annie returned this morning this afternoon Dr Freeman Annie & myself visited the capitol -- went to the top from which we had a grand view of the country & spent an hour in the library --   SUNDAY 21.  Found an indian in my ward today belonging to the 21st Wisconsin -- attended church in the hospital this afternoon & Dr F- took us to Pres church tonight     August,           MONDAY 22.      1864.  This afternoon Annie Dr F- [Freeman] & I visited the capitol -- went to the top from which we had a glorious view of the country -- Returned by Mrs Polk's residence & visited the grave of her illustrious husband --   TUESDAY 23.  Charley Grier & Capt Colton spent the evening with us -- the latter just returned from home. Charley is going home tomorrow -- it almost makes me homesick to think of it. Stewards Reilly & McCrombie also called tonight --   WEDNESDAY 24.   Wrote to Brother Wes today --
[95-96]   August,         THURSDAY 25.     1864.   Received a letter from Caddie telling me the Dicksons are angry with me -- wrote to Lizzie tonight explaining matters. Capt Colton called again this morning -- goes to the front the evening (Annie Dr F. [Freeman] & I with Bell & Lide at No 12 --   FRIDAY 26.  Steward McCrombie- Brother Jim & a friend of his & Dr Freeman were in to see us this evening the first-named brought me a song. Wrote a letter to Mother today -- (     )  SATURDAY 27.  Dr White was returned today (another surgeon assistant to the 3rd ward -- Dr Miller hope he will do better --     August,         SUNDAY 28.    1864.   Did not go to church this morning but Annie Dr F. [Freeman] & I walked up to "No 1" to hear our old chaplain -- Enjoyed it very much -- Dr F- & Dr McIntyre spent the evening here as we would not go with them to church   MONDAY 29.    TUESDAY 30.
[97-98]   August,        WEDNESDAY 31.        1864.   There are wild rumors today to the effect that the rebels are close to Nashville -- Gen Wheeler in command -- the rebel citizens are jubilant -- We are not alarmed --   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1.   All the available troops in this vicinity have been sent out to meet Wheeler -- and fighting is supposed to be going on not more than eight miles from here.   FRIDAY 2.   ^wounded from [?] [?] fight [?] four today^ Went to soldiers prayer meeting this afternoon in the M.E. church near us -- Afterwards to San. Com. Dr Clendennin came in to see us this evening for the first time -- Wrote to Jim Mitchell today -- Dispatch [?] that [?]     September,           SATURDAY 3.        1864.  Wrote to Bro Rob today -- A number of our men went north this afternoon -- Finished reading this evening "A life for a life" by Miss Murlock A salute from Fort Cobun in honor of the victory at Atlanta --    SUNDAY 4.   Went with Mrs Goodfellow to S. School this morning at the M.E. church -- went to hear the chaplain preach this afternoon & stayed at home to write to Maggie Murray this evening --   MONDAY 5.   Received a joint letter from Dr May telling us they would return on the 15th & I could come to No 8 if there is room, & the med director willing -- there is room & when Annie & I went to see Dr Clendennin he expressed his willingness -- so they will be with us once more
[99-100]  September,           TUESDAY 6.       1864.  Stewards Col    WEDNESDAY 7.  Had a letter from Emma Hayes saying that she cannot come out as we expected -- this evening Annie Dr F-- [Freeman] & I called at "No 12" & afterwards at Dr Taylor's --   THURSDAY 8.  Recd a letter from Kate Slifer telling me that she is going to be married next month & asking me to be one of her bridesmaids Received a joint letter from Sallie Dysart -- Wrote to Col Slifer asking him for trans-portation for Callie --     September,             FRIDAY 9.            1864.   Wrote to Sallie Dysart. This evening Dr Miller surg. of 5th Kentucky cav. & of the 3rd ward called to see me[?] -- Goes home tomorrow (his time having expired but expects to return in a few weeks   SATURDAY 10.   This afternoon Annie & I called at Judge Trimblis, & Mr Wilkin's had a very pleasant time -- came from Mrs W's loaded with flowers Received letters from Caddie Hayes & a joint one from Minnie Lincoln                     SUNDAY 11.          8
[101-102]  September,           MONDAY 12.          1864.   Received a letter from Will enclosing ten dollars & "Tessies" pictures Charley Grier returned this morning bringing me letters Caddie & Sadie Hayes some photographs, etc -- Had a grand illumination meeting tonight at the capital --   TUESDAY 13.     WEDNESDAY 14.   Sick most of the day & obliged to lie in bed (Choleramorbus) -- Received a letter from Caddie enclosing one from Nellie Dickson containing a great deal of nothing --     September,         THURSDAY 15.          1864.  This afternoon Dr F [Freeman] Annie & I drove over to Edgefield in an ambulance -- Had a delightful ride- visited camp of thirteenth reg. gathered moss to fill our hanging basket  FRIDAY 16.   Recd a dispatch from Dr May saying they will be here tomorrow -- Dr F Mrs Ely & Steward McCrombie spent the evening with us. Recd a letter from Caddie -- wrote to Kate Slifer --   SATURDAY 17.  Dr & Mrs May arrived this morning -- how pleasant it is to have them with us again. This afternoon Dr F took Mrs Ely Annie & me to the insane asylum about six miles from here -- a most beautiful place. Saw the Vailoria[?] Reg [?] Liley -- Letter from Jim Mitchell --
[103-104]   September,           SUNDAY 18.              1864.  This afternoon Dr & Mrs May Annie & I rode in ambulance up to "No 1" to church -- had a very pleasant visit -- Evening Dr [?] Annie & I went to P--n [Presbyterian] church --  MONDAY 19.    TUESDAY 20.  Recd a letter from brother Tom     September,         WEDNESDAY 21.             1864.  Attended a grand wedding at the Episcopal church -- A Rebel lady married a Union officer --     THURSDAY 22.   Received letters from Caddie & Dr Lotz -- This afternoon Annie Dr Freeman brother Jim & I started for mammoth cave -- went up on the hospital train reached Cave city at 11 oclock --             FRIDAY 23.      8*  Started for the cave in this mornings stage- reached it at 10 oclock -- Visited it this afternoon taking the short route -- walk about eight miles -- Just after we came in Annie met with an accident which frightened me terribly --
[105-106]   September,          SATURDAY 24.           1864.  Annie was not able to go this morning so we could not visit the remainder of the cave -- and the boys went without us -- We are both terribly dis-appointed --   SUNDAY 25.  Expected to go home last night but no stage going out we had to wait until this morning reached home about six oclock -- the first time I have ever travelled on Sunday --   MONDAY 26.   Recd letters from Kate Slifer, Sallie Dysart & a tiny note from Caddie enclosing a sweet little steel pin --    Last evening I received four books from Jim Mitchell -- Wrote to Brother Will for some clothes --     September,          TUESDAY 27.               1864.  Wrote Caddie a long letter today because I was unable to go into the wards --     WEDNESDAY 28.    THURSDAY 29.
[107-108]   September,           FRIDAY 30.             1864.    SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1.    SUNDAY 2.   Wrote a long letter to Mother today -- went to church in the smoking room this afternoon -- & to Mc Kendree chapel in the evening where we heard a splendid sermon by an army chaplain    October,            MONDAY 3.             1864.  Wrote to Dr Christ this A.M. & sent him a photo -- Dr Taylor was relieved today & Dr Freeman appointed in his place    TUESDAY 4.   Spent the evening (Annie Dr F. & I) at Dr May's- had a pleasant time -- This morning Kate Slifer was to be married -- a gloomy rainy day. I trust not an omen of her future --     WEDNESDAY 5.   REceived a long letter from Maggie Murray today enclosing her picture -- Will she tells me is a prisoner in Richmond
[109-110]   October,          THURSDAY 6.               1864.  wrote  Called on Mrs Earnest this afternoon & at "No 19." -- then went to the depot to meet Sallie but she did not come -- went to prayermeeting in the chapel tonight & enjoyed it very much   FRIDAY 7.   This afternoon the ladies from No 19- came for us to take an ambulance ride -- visited Cumberland hosp & penitentiary and dress parade of 178th O. Sath came tonight --  SATURDAY 8.  Was greatly surprised this morn by a call from Mrs Carleton (Sade Pollock) & her husband -- Wrote to Caddie this afternoon -- evening called at Mrs Cameron's- Dr Taylors & No 12    October,            SUNDAY 9.           1864.  Went to M.E. church this morning to hear chaplain Allington -- heard a splendid sermon -- afternoon we all went over to the church & Dr F- [Freeman] played the organ while we sang. I tried the organ for the first time in my life -- wrote to Harry Hayes & Will Murray--  MONDAY 10.     One of Miss Dix's nurses Miss Latham who used to be with Harry Hayes spent the day with us. At four oclock we all rode out to Fort Gillem to see a flag raised & heard Gen Meagher speak -- returned by St Cecilia [?] Received letters from Nellie & one of my old patients --   TUESDAY 11.  Received a large number (eighty) wounded today -- Annie & I took a walk this afternoon -- Received a letter from Caddie- answered it & sent her my bracelets -- We all spent the evening at Dr Taylor's --
[111-112]   October,        WEDNESDAY 12.         1864.    THURSDAY 13.    FRIDAY 14.     October,         SATURDAY 15.          1864.    SUNDAY 16.         MONDAY 17.         9  Sallie Sysart started for Louisville in search of her trunk -- Mr Blood Lidie & Bell spent the evening with us --
[113-114]   October,           TUESDAY 18.        1864.   Steward Riley brought us a beautiful song called "tenting on the old camp ground" - Dr Freeman gave me a book called "Early Dawn" by the author of the Cotta family --  WEDNESDAY 19.    THURSDAY 20.  Sallie returned this evening -- went to prayermeeting in the chapel tonight -- The meetings are increasing in members & in interest --     October,            FRIDAY 21.       1864.     SATURDAY 22.   Went to daily prayermeeting this afternoon -- a Major prayed and spoke whom we afterwards found to be a pay master in the army & a Pensylvanian [sic] -- name B.L. Martin -- Recd a letter from Dr Christ --   SUNDAY 23.   Went to Pres--n church this morning with Mrs May -- wrote a letter to Nellie Dickson this afternoon & hear chaplain Goodfellow preach in the chapel tonight.
[115-116]   October,           MONDAY 24.       1864.   Miss McNair Miss Craigher[?] Mr Blood a Dr whose name I have forgotten & chaplain Allington spent this evening with us -- Tonight the colored people had a grand torch light procession   TUESDAY 25.     WEDNESDAY 26.  Mrs Ely left this morning for Louisville & I cannot feel at all sorry -- she is a vain worldly woman & has given us a great deal of trouble --      October,         THURSDAY 27.      1864.  Wrote to Jim Mitchell tonight --     FRIDAY 28.  Capt Colton called to see us this afternoon he has been on an expedition up into Virginia. Received letters from Harry Hayes Will & Caddie  SATURDAY 29.     9*
[117-118]   October,           SUNDAY 30.     1864.    MONDAY 31.     TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1.      November,        WEDNESDAY 2.     1864.    THURSDAY 3.     FRIDAY 4.
[119-120]   November,         SATURDAY 5.       1864.     SUNDAY 6.     MONDAY 7.      November,            TUESDAY 8.       1864.    WEDNESDAY 9.  Sallie left for Chattanooga     THURSDAY 10.
[121-122]   November,            FRIDAY 11.       1864.     SATURDAY 12.     SUNDAY 13.     November,           MONDAY 14.         1864.   Had a delightful ride out to the Harding[?] plantation through the kindness of Dr Freeman -- brought home a quantity of Miseltoe [sic] for a winter boquet [sic] -- the first I have seen close by --   TUESDAY 15.   Attended the sociable at Mr Dickey's[?] -- Dr Hacking[?] gave lady nurses a horrible cut in today's paper- mean contemptible man that he is     WEDNESDAY 16.  Today Dr Freeman gave me charge of the linen room -- A lieutenant was admitted to one of my wards -- Chas Tyler 129th Ind[?] ---
[123-124]   November,         THURSDAY 17.                1864.     FRIDAY 18.    SATURDAY 19.  Annie is angry with me because I am taking the linen room I encroach upon her supreme authority    Recd a letter from bro Jim & answered it immediately --      November,            SUNDAY 20.               1864.  The Lieutenant died this afternoon -- wrote to Maggie Murray -- Recd a letter from Caddie --     MONDAY 21.   Had our first snow storm and from a warm damp day yesterday the weather has changed to bitter cold -- Received five boxes from home- one partly filled with hospital supplies         TUESDAY 22.                10
[125-126]   November,        WEDNESDAY 23.              1864.   Very busy today getting ready for thanksgiving -- we baked a barral [sic] & a half of doughnuts & five or six hundred apple dumplings     THURSDAY 24.   "Thanksgiving day" -- what a fatiguing day we have had but the boys have enjoyed it fully repaying us for all our trouble --     FRIDAY 25.   Recd letters today from Caddie Wes & Sallie Dysart -- Dr Freeman brought in a violin tonight & I accompanied him on the piano -- I enjoyed it exceedingly --      November,          SATURDAY 26.               1864.     SUNDAY 27.    MONDAY 28.
[127-128]   November,           TUESDAY 29.               1864.     WEDNESDAY 30.  Tonight there is news of a terrible battle progressing at Franklin about seventeen miles from here between the forces of Hood & Thomas --     THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1.  What a day of excitement this has been -- hundreds of wounded are being brought in from the battle last night & our hosp. is full to overflowing    Our new surgeon Dr Byron took charge today          X     December,            FRIDAY 2.           1864.   This afternoon we went to the capital from which we could distinctly hear cannonading -- this evening we went to look at the camp-fires on the hills around. It is rumored that Hood is crossing the river.   SATURDAY 3.   Today we could distinguish the smoke of bursting schells[sic] on our skirmish lines showing that there is fighting going on- with what result we cannot tell --              SUNDAY 4.      10*  This afternoon Annie Dr F. & I walked out to the cemetery to look for a soldier's grave -- While there Fort Negly[Fort Negley was a large Union fortification south of Nashville] commenced throwing[?] shells -- Afterwards we walked around part of our nearest lines of fortifications they now close by No 1 --
[129-130]   December,           MONDAY 5.           1864.   This afternoon Annie Dr F Dr May & I walked out to fort "Confiscation" from which we could plainly see the rebel lines Saw a number of rebel flags captured at Franklin at Gen Ruger's head quarters --   TUESDAY 6.     WEDNESDAY 7.     December,          THURSDAY 8.         1864.     FRIDAY 9.  Snow is falling today & the air is growing sharper & colder every moment -- our poor boys in the trenches will suffer --     SATURDAY 10  Had an agreeable surprise this afternoon -- Hood McCormick (Capt 4th reg. cav) whom I heard was killed came to see me. He has been a prisoner at Charleston -- has changed so much that I scarcely recognised him
[131-132]  December,           SUNDAY 11.           1864.    MONDAY 12.    TUESDAY 13.      December,       WEDNESDAY 14.       1864.    THURSDAY 15.   Walked out to "No 1" today to see the rebels if possible -- all we could see however were the flashes from the guns throwing shells at each other -- A victory was soon today   FRIDAY 16.  A terrible battle was fought today in which we were victorious & Hood's army perfectly routed. A party of us walked to the block house from which we could see the two lines & hear the rattle of musketry --
[133-134]   December,         SATURDAY 17.       1864.    SUNDAY 18.  Bro. Jim returned from Louisville today.    MONDAY 19.      December,         TUESDAY 20.        1864.     WEDNESDAY 21.     THURSDAY 22.   Dr F [Freeman] Annie & I visited the battle field today & brought away a number of relics -- Went to the "stone-quarry" on our way home to see the prisoners --
[135-136]   December,           FRIDAY 23.        1864.     SATURDAY 24.   Recd a package from home containing gloves scarf & linen cuffs & collar from Mother Caddie & Ellen     SUNDAY 25.  Had a splendid Christmas dinner for our boys today   Jim & Dr F took dinner with us. Annie gave me a beautiful journal for a Christmas present.     December,          MONDAY 26.          1864.     TUESDAY 27.   Tonight I have been for a long time with a dying boy & for the first time in my life have uttered a prayer in the presence of another -- Have I done right ---   WEDNESDAY 28.        11  Dr Freeman was taken very ill this morning -- dangerously ill with pneumonia Annie has gone to see him tonight --
[137-138]   December,         THURSDAY 29.          1864.   Our respected -- dear friend Dr Freeman died tonight It seems as though it cannot be -- So well only two days ago -- Now a corpse --   FRIDAY 30.   A sad sad day to all of us who loved Dr Freeman Annie & I were totally unfitted for our duties & spent the whole day in our room packing his things  SATURDAY 31.  Another sad day -- our loss is so fresh in our minds that we cannot cease our weeping   Received a letter from Wes telling me he had taken a house & would expect me to go and    MEMORANDA.  keep house for him -- Oh God show me my duty & help me to walk in fit not matter what the sacrifice I must make
[139-140]  MEMORANDA.  [blank]    CASH ACCOUNT.     SEPTEMBER.    Paid.    Rec'd.
[141-142]  CASH ACCOUNT.     OCTOBER.    Paid.    Rec'd.     CASH ACCOUNT.     NOVEMBER.    Paid.    Rec'd.
[143-144]  CASH ACCOUNT.     DECEMBER.    Paid.    Rec'd.   79th Col Hambright  77th  Milton M. Horton   _________________________________________  Capt. Wm Mills Post Q.M --     10,061 no of negation     box 2875 Cleveland O     George Woodward    98th Ohio  Freeport   Harrison Co
