Transcript

[Cover]
[Front Matter]    No. 3      M.S. Lytle  vk/183      June 13th  1861.    Diary --
[1]  June 13 1861.   Dr. Pugh started to Philadelphia this morning. Having no lessons to study, I went to the Laboratory at 6 ½ A.M. and remained till 12. Read in the Life of Goldsmith this afternoon -- Played Whist in 54 with Troutman S.C., Eckman, and Wetmore -- Received this book from home, having left it there in vacation. In R. Room from 5 till 7 p.m.. -- Went out to see the oats plots with J.H. Isett, L.C. Troutman, and Wetmore after prayers ---- Came back about 8 O'clock and played Euchre --    The weather has been quite pleasant today
[2]  June 14, 1861  Instead of going to Laboratory this morning, I made further examination of Grasses -- Prof. Baker heard our recitation in Calculus at 3 p.m.. The class will hereafter recite in mathematics to him -- After 4 O'clock I attended to my ablutions.  Went with Lynn Troutman down to the store this evening. we also walked out through the botanical gardens -- Attended Society tonight - Being Rec. Secretary, I did not take an active part in the exercises. We elected several officers, instead of absent ones -- Nothing important was done. Anonymous papers very brief -- Adjourned about 10 O'clock -- after which I went to Troutman’s room.    [3]  June 15, 1861.  This morning I was engaged about an hour in arranging minutes of last night’s meeting -- Read over fifty pages of The Life of Goldsmith -- Brought The “Vicar of Wakefield” from the Library -- Went to the Post Office at 2 O'clock and got R. Room papers -- Received a note from Mrs. E.S. Lytle requesting me to go over this evening, but owing to the lateness of its reception I could not comply. After Prayers went to the store with Wetmore, Harry Isett, + Lynn Troutman. Returned after dark, and went to Wetmore’s room, where we had music on violin, several games at cards, and some eatables --
[4]  June 16.  There was Bible Class today, but I did not attend. -- There was no preaching -- Wrote to Lizzie this forenoon, acknowledging receipt of her note on Saturday, and promising to go to Pine Grove on next Saturday if possible. Also wrote a letter of five pages to J.A. Young - Slept a short time, both before and after dinner. Prof. Wilson read an extract in Chapel this evening -- It was advice to young men - I read considerably in the Life of Goldsmith, and some in the Vicar of Wakefield ---- This morning we had some rain. Cool breeze during the day, and a little more rain this evening.  [5]  June 17, 1861.  Read Goldsmith from 6 till 8 A.M., and finished it. Continued the “Vicar.” -- Dr. Pugh returned this afternoon; and this evening in Chapel he gave us a brief account of his trip. Having finished his business in Philada. on Saturday, he went on to Washington, Havre de Grace Relay House, + Arlington Heights for the purpose of seeing the Federal Camps ---- Hugh Johnson, of Spruce Creek, was here tonight. He came up from Stewarts about dark, and staid here till 10 ½ O'clock. He is going to Boalsburg tomorrow. -- This has been a very pleasant day, and tonight is beautiful. ----
[6]  June 18.  After studying lessons, I went out to get some specimens of the Grasses -- Was along the road through the woods; and crossed over the cloverfield to the Strawberry patch -- Was not in the laboratory -- Our class recites at 2 O'clock, in Calculus, So that we have no recitations after 3 p.m.. -- Received a short letter from Decatur by this evening’s mail. Have been at my studies very industriously tonight. ----    June 19.  Attended to all duties punctually today, and did nothing more of importance, except the writing of a very short letter to Decatur.    [7]  June 20, 1861  In the Laboratory from 10 till 12. Commenced some work which could not be left at 11 O'clock, and consequently did not attend recitation in Chemistry -- The time for our afternoon recitations has been again changed -- We now have Calculus at 1, and Geology at 2 O'clock -- Some of the members of our class have formed themselves into an “Anti-Shaving Club.” The penalty of shaving before the 4th of December is $1. I am a member ---- We have sent a petition to Dr. Pugh, asking him to give us some exercises in the Zouave drill. He has not yet given us a reply.
[8]  June 21.  This afternoon I went with Prof. Whitman to the woods after some Grasses, which we examined -- In Society nothing very important was done. I recorded the minutes. -- Having in view for tomorrow a visit to Pine Grove, I thought it proper that I should “shave,” which I did; and paid my dollar for “The benefit of the club.” Cake, candies &c were purchased. We had our feast in J.D. Isett’s room -- Tonight about 10 O'clock I went with J.H. Isett and Lynn Troutman on a short excursion - very beautiful night ---- The day was warm.     [9]  Pine Grove, June 22  Went to the Corn-field this forenoon to assist Dr. Pugh in spreading manure over experimental plots. Obtained permission to come, this afternoon to this place. Went over to Foster’s to get a horse. After dinner, got ready and on the arrival of the mail, I started -- Reached here about 4 O'clock p.m.. Found my brother, John, and his family all well. This evening I walked about town. Met the Misses Thomas of Spruce Creek. ---- The cool air of tonight is quite refreshing, after the heat of today --    F.H.S. June 23 ----  Left Pine Grove
[10]  at 6. p.m.. A heavy shower came up, from which I took shelter under some trees -- After it was over, I enjoyed a much more pleasant journey, as the air was much cooler. Arrived here at 7 ½.     June 24, 1861  The class finished Inorganic Chemistry today. -- This evening Dr. Pugh commenced giving us exercises in drilling. We met in the Third Story recitation room - and were engaged about one hour ---- Tonight I have been busy in copying minutes of Society ----    June 25-1861-  Letter received today from    [11]  J. A. Young. In R. Room from 5 till 7 p.m -- After prayers Wetmore and I went over to Prof Waring’s farm, and from thence down to C. Furnace -- The evening was quite pleasant. We remained some time at the Spring, and also at the woods, this side of the Furnace. We got back about 10 o’clock.    June 26, 1861--  Was in the Laboratory but a short time today -- The “Zouaves” drilled this evening for 1 ½ hours.     June 27, 1861--  After recitations (2 o'clock) I went to J.D. Isett’s room, and staid till suppertime. Was in R. Room from 5 ½ till 7 ½ p.m..
[12]  (27)  Went to see Dr. Pugh tonight about going home on the 4th of July. He desired me to remain, until vacation, which will be as soon as harvest is over --    June 28-- This evening I walked through the nursery and Botanical garden -- In Society I attended to my duties as Secretary -- The attendance was small, owing to many of our members being away from the Institution ---- The Society adjourned for four weeks -- We had quite a discussion in Tom Roberts room concerning the two    [13]  Societies, between members of each. “Washington” met with its usual success.    June 29, 1861.  This was a very pleasant morning. Nothing could have induced me to study. I went out to the woods, and staid about an hour. After the detail came in I went with them to the Kitchen, where we got some pies. -- Played Eu---e a short time in 95 -- After dinner was in R. Room till mail time. Went after papers, and read.   The “Zouaves” drilled this evening ---- The “Shaving Club” went to Stewarts tonight for ice-cream ----
[14]  June 30, 1861 - Sunday    Bible class at usual time -- Took a walk to the woods before dinner -- No Preaching this afternoon, as the preacher did not come -- Went to R. Room this and read some -- After prayers Wetmore & I went to the Furnace supposing there was Church; but being disappointed, we returned vis of the Spring - from thence up the road, leading North, and down through the woods. This was a very pleasant walk.--     July 1st, 1861--  Was in Laboratory this     [15]  forenoon, but did not attend Chemistry recitation -- In Wetmore’s room this afternoon. The Zouaves were at drill this evening again. We are becoming quite proficient in the exercises which we have gone through -- In Chapel this evening, Dr. Pugh “called the attention of the students to a very important matter.” Some fellows have been after the wash-girls, and this gave him a topic for some very laughable remarks, which however were not much relished by a few ---- Tonight I have been reading a book entitled the “Young Man’s Book.”
[16]  July 2 --  Attended all recitations -- In Reading Room this evening - The War news are quite interesting. A special meeting of Society was held after prayer. The motion relative to adjournment was passed repealed -- A very bright comet is visible tonight ----    July 3 --  After prayers, Westmore and I took a walk towards the Furnace. We fell in with a rather rough looking female, who gave us several specimens of “strong language,” threatening to tell her husband of us, who would not go near her.     [17]  July 4, 1861.  I was awakened this morning by the firing of several old shot-guns under my window. The discharging of the worn-out pieces made not a very pleasant sound, but it nevertheless reminded us that our national anniversary had once more dawned. All the classes were at work today, and there were several recitations. I went to the P. Office, and brought R. Room papers -- After supper I played Whist in no. 54, with Wetmore, Fred Watts and Church - and at dark we went to Stewart’s after ice-cream. The Farm School Cadets went
[18]  to Boalsburg this afternoon.    July 5. -----  Dr. Pugh being away this morning we had no Chemistry. This evening I wrote two papers for the Anonymous Box. One was entitled “The Constituent.” The other “The Bold Soldier Boy.” They were intended to make sport of Kisterbock & Brenneman -- Although our Society was small, it was quite interesting tonight. I resigned my position as Secretary. Fred Watts was elected -- I was on Committee to decide debate. I spoke extemporaneously on “The Geology of the Farm    [19]  School” ----  July 6th.  Was in the Laboratory from 9 till 12 -- Played Whist from immediately after dinner till mail time -- Brought papers for Reading Room, and read till 5 p.m.. -- This evening I have been walking around the place -- Wetmore, Charlie Troutman, and I went to a singing-school tonight, which was held in a Schoolhouse about two miles down the road. “Wetty” & “Trout”  [remainder of page missing]
[20]  July 7, 1861 --  Walked out to the woods this morning by myself ---- Bible Class was at 9 a.m., and preaching at 3 p.m.-- I have been troubled with the toothache nearly all day.  July 8.  This morning each of our class received substances from Dr. Pugh for analysis. We are to analyze fifty compounds as a portion of our examination in chemistry -- I was also in   [remainder of the page is missing]    [21]  together in front of the building.  July 9.  Continued the analysis in the Laboratory from 9 till 11 a.m. and from 3 till 4 p.m.. Finished my first lot of substances ---- Received letters from Decatur, & J.D. Isett. -- All are well at home, except Grandmother, who has been bed-fast for several weeks -- J.D. Isett requests me to send him some articles from here. I got them ready after prayers. -- Answered both letters tonight, but did it briefly, as I am troubled with a toothache -- Reading the papers from 5 till 7 p.m. -- Several students returned by the stage today ----
[22]  July 10.  Was engaged from 6 a.m. till 3 p.m.. with my studies -- The “Zouaves” drilled from 5 till 7 p.m. -- Tonight I went to Hart’s room, where we had some lemonade and cakes -- Remained there till bedtime.    July 11 --  Went to Laboratory at 6, and remained till 8 a.m. After Prayers I walked out around the new building - which is now progressing rapidly --    July 12.  In Laboratory today from 6 till 11 a.m., and from 2 till 4 p.m. -- The Zouaves went to    [23]  drilling shortly after supper. Went through a few exercises in third story recitation room, but more space being necessary we went on the “double-quick” to the field, back of the barn. Here we practised “the run.” We were kept on a continual gallop for about an hour. I was very glad when the time came to stop, as the exercise was extremely tiresome.    Our society was better attended tonight than it has been during the past two or three weeks ---- I was appointed to debate on the question “Should England sacrifice her principles for Cotton” As this is a one-sided
[24]  question, and I had the weak side, I had no hopes of gaining it, and did not. After Society Tom Roberts came up with his Flageolet, and we had some music on his instrument in concert with the drum ----    July 13, 1861 --  Did not do much in the Laboratory today -- Was not at recitation. Had the toothache all forenoon. Went to Post office at 2 O'clock for the papers. Read till 5 p.m.-- Members of our class were appointed to speak in Chapel on Monday, but we induced Dr. Pugh to excuse us till after vacation ----    [25]  July 14.  Was at Bible Class at 9 ½ a.m -- No preaching today -- This evening I walked down through the nursery -- Was in the Reading Room a short time -- Tonight Dr. Pugh read in Chapel on article on Self-Reproach. Wrote to Decatur.    July 15, ‘61.  I have been troubled with headache all day -- Did but little in the Laboratory. The Companies drilled together this evening -- I was in the ranks a very short time -- This evening is quite pleasant --
[26]  In Lab. from 9 till 12 a.m. -- This afternoon, just as recitations were over, Decatur arrived -- He came from Pine Grove today, having been there last night -- After he had rested a short time I went with him to see the philosophical apparatus and, and [sic] geological specimens. He remained till 7 O'clock, and intended going as far as P. Grove this evening --  July 17.  After studying very diligently from 6 till 9 a.m. I went to the Laboratory -- Attended     [27]  recitation in Chemistry at 11 ½. Only three members of the Class were present. We drilled about two hours after supper --  July 18--  Today, as usual, I was in the Laboratory, during 3 hours before, and several afternoon. Reading papers from 5 till 7 p.m.  July 19 --  This afternoon I wrote a no. of the “Blood & Thunder Miscellany” for the Anonymous Box. Was in the R. Room but a short time. Society met tonight. Election was held. I was elected
[28]  Critic. The Anon. papers were quite interesting -- The question for debate was “Did the American Revolution involve greater consequences than the present war?” The Aff. was supported by Roberts and Smith -- Watts C. and myself were on the neg. -- Watts made but a very few remarks on first speech, and said nothing on last round -- It was decided unanimously in favor of neg. This afternoon Roberts and I had a conversation concerning a society anniversary, & tonight it was brought up - and a motion to hold     [29]  anniversaries was passed -- Roberts, Brenneman, and myself were appointed Committee to determine upon some method by which they should be conducted ----  July 20.  No recitations today -- This afternoon went to P. office after papers. Read from 3 till 5 ½ p.m. -- About 6, Wetmore and I took a walk down the road. We remained about an hour in the Woods, about a mile from here - and then went on the the Barrens -- After having obtained (as far as I was concerned) the object of our journey, we returned (at 11 p.m..) Went to
[30]  Stewarts and obtained some pies and cakes, part of which sufficed to alleviate our hunger -- I intend in sleeping in Wetmore’s room tonight.     Sunday, July 21--  Wetmore and I did not get up in time for breakfast this morning - but were well satisfied with what remained from last night -- I did not attend Bible class, and was not at dinner -- No preaching today -- This evening I walked around East end of Farm with Tom Roberts & Charlie Troutman -- Dr. Pugh read in chapel, a sermon, which at the commencement he    [31]  said was too profound for us to understand, and consequently I did not listen to it -------------   July 22.  Went to the Laboratory at 8 O'clock a.m., and was engaged till 12 in preparing reagents. At three p.m.. I went to the barn and assisted Dr. Pugh to weigh, and put away the Wheat from experimental plots. In R. Room from Supper till Prayers -- Procured some eggs, crackers &c. from the store, which we cooked in Hart’s room -- Our party consisted of Hart, Church, & myself --
[32]  July 23 --  At 6 a.m. I continued preparing reagents in Laboratory -- Did not attend recitations this afternoon, I have been afflicted with toothache all day -- Received a letter and newspaper from Decatur. The Federal forces met a disastrous defeat at Manasses [sic] Junction. They lost from 3000 to 4000 men, their artillery &c. --   Obtained permission from Dr. Pugh to go home tomorrow ------------    [33]  Spruce Creek, July 24.  Made preparations immediately after breakfast for coming home. Started in Stage at 9 ½ a.m. Arrived in Pine Grove about an hour and a half later. Found Lizzie very sick. Came on at 12 ½ and arrived here about 4 p.m. -- Every-where along the road and here, the greatest excitement exists with regard to the late battle -- Very exaggerated accounts are prevalent. The Federal loss is only 500 killed, without the loss of batteries as reported -- Grandmother is bed-fast - and [?] unable to walk, from a late
[34]  surgical operation --  July 25 --  Sent papers this morning to Wetmore & Shinn -- Not doing much today, except reading news + looking around town -- This afternoon about 3,000 troops passed in the cars -- A Stage load of Students came in from School this evening.    July 26 1861--  Our town at present is very quiet, so that one knows time[?] a visitor is at a loss sometimes for something to  engage his attention -- Harry Isett was here this evening ----    [35]  July 27.  Spent nearly the whole of today at a pic-nic -- Between 8 & 9 O'clock a.m. we started from here in a wagon; our party consisting of eight persons. At McPherran’s (1 mile from here) another wagon joined us, and at Dysart’s still another. This considerably increased our company. We remained half an hour at the latter place. On reaching Union Furnace, three carriages were added to the party -- We then lost but little time in reaching Arch Spring Cave -- Here we partook of a most excellent repast, which
[36]  was spread on the ground by the ladies - afterwhich we amused ourselves in the Cave, and on the surrounding hills, all of which nature appears to have striven to make romantic -- We departed from the grounds at 5 p.m. - but before going far, our wagon was broken. While repairs were being made, a swing was put up on which the greater portion of the company amused themselves -- After an hour or so we again prepared to go continue on journey homeward -- Another accident occurred, however, which detained us some time longer    [37]  longer -- One of the wagons was driven against a carriage at Arch- Springs which took a wheel off the latter --   Once more on our way we met with no further interruptions - but arrived here safely at 8 ½ O'clock p.m. -- This day was very pleasantly passed -- Others enjoyed it more than I, perhaps, as I had the tooth-ache -- ---- Father went to Pine Grove -- Marion came home on the evening’s train -- and one of our cows was killed by the cars ----    July 28 _ (Sunday)  Have been out of the house but little today.
[38]  July 29 --  Was unwell last night -- Did not sleep any -- Was not out of bed till 4 O'clock p.m. -- I am not much better this evening. Father returned from Pine Grove and Marion went to Huntingdon on the train tonight.--  July 30.  Took a solitary ramble along the banks of the “blue Juniata” this morning. Sat beneath a shade-tree and read a short time -- The weather being very warm, I jumped into the stream - and I feel that the effects of the bath have been very    [39]  beneficial. As usual, I remained in the house nearly all day -- This evening Hugh Johnson and I tried the water again - and afterwards we took a walk up the Railroad --    July 31--  I staid with Hugh Johnson, at the Keystone last night. Came home “early in the morning” and did not go out till evening.  Scarcely anything occurs here to keep the people awake, except the passage of troops in both directions over the railroad -- Our cousin, Sanford Stonebraker, and other
[40]  three months volunteers, returned this evening --  August 1, 1861  Shouldered my rod and line, and went fishing this morning. Got “fisherman’s luck;” and also took advantage of my proximity to the river, and enjoyed the luxury of another “plunge” --   Tonight Hugh Johnson and I visited the Rhule’s - He did not remain long. I was there till 11 O'clock --  August 2--  Wrote to Marion, and received an answer this evening -- For the last few days I have been assisting    [41]  some in the post-office. Father lately received the appointment of P.M. He keeps his office in the Saddler shop, having a corner arranged to answer the purpose. ---- The weather is very warm -- Hugh Johnson and I were bathing tonight in the creek ------------------------------------------------------------------------------    Aug. 3--  This morning Hart (a F.H.S. student, who is passing the vacation in this village) and I walked out to the hills on the opposite side of the river -- Wrote to Marion, and sent him money to purchase me
[42]  some clothing, which he did, and sent them off this evening -- There appears to be considerable “war feeling” about this place. The fighting, which should be confined to regions farther south, has almost extended to our own community. There are persons among us whom public opinion has set down as possessing feelings not altogether loyal; and This has been made a topic of conversation, and some persons have gone so far as to drop anonymous papers concerning it in our    [43]  streets, and place large sheets in public places. The persons against whom the charges have been made have become very angry, and made exertions to discover the author. and One of two of these placed their suspicions on my brother Decatur, though without any sufficient reasons, as they themselves, acknowledged tonight -- After considerable talk, and wrangling, the matter was quieted --  Aug. 4. (Suday)   Was up at Porter’s today. Took dinner there. Attended Church at 4 p.m.., and Prayer
[44]  meeting at 7 ---- The weather is extremely warm ----  August 5th  For an hour or so this a.m. I read in the Biography of Daniel Webster -- We had a fine shower today -- Hart & I this evening went out into the country and purchased some fruit, which we design taking to school with us -- It was my intention to return tomorrow, but I think I shall remain until Thursday.    Aug - 6.  The Stage this morning was filled with Students    [45]  for the Farmer’s High School. -- Was reading Shakespeare (Venus & Adonis) this forenoon -- Staid in the house nearly all day -- This evening read the latest news --    Aug. 7 ---  Weather too warm to go out of the house till evening. At 6 O'clock at I started with one of our cattle to the country for pasture. The mail train, which should arrive here at 5 ½ p.m.., did not come till 10. I remained at station, and then assisted in assorting mail ----
[46]  August 8.  This afternoon the Keystone property was put up at public sale. Father made a bid of $4,000, but owing to the scarcity of bidders the sale was postponed.  Took a bath in the creek after dark. Was visiting at Rhule’s till 11 p.m. ------    Aug. 9 ----  Very pleasant this morning. Our folks have been preparing for the celebration which is to be held tomorrow. This afternoon we had several    [47]  very heavy showers ----  August 10.  Spruce Creek has been quite lively today. The Celebration was held on the old grounds near the Hook. The Tyrone Volunteers, who have lately returned from service, were in attendance. -- I was there about an hour -- The dinner was fine -- After the exercises were over many of the soldiers got very drunk.  Visited at Johnston’s a short time tonight ------    Sunday Aug. 11  Walked down the railroad this morning. At
[48]  4 p.m. I went with Hugh Johnston into the country on horseback. We stopped at a farm house about two miles from here, and obtained some fruit ----    Aug. 12 ---  This day has been very dreary. Raining nearly all day. Nothing to be done out of doors. Made some preparations for returning to school by tomorrow’s stage ------    Farmer’s High School.   Thursday, Aug. 13. 1861----  Very disagreeable all day -- I came from home by stage. Mrsers. Eckman, Smith, &     [49]  McAllister, who came to S. Creek by the cars, also came out. I went to see my brother John in Pine Grove, and took dinner with him -- Tonight the “Shaving Club” met in McCormick’s room, to partake of some eatables ----  August 14.  Commenced study this morning -- Attended all recitations. We had our first recitation in Veterinary at 3 O'clock p.m -- The Reading Room got in very bad condition while I was absent. I cleaned it out today -- Was in Laboratory
[50]  a short time this forenoon.  Aug. 15 --  Did not attend recitation at 11 O'clock, as I was unwell. Our class is to make a Geological excursion with Dr. Pugh tomorrow. This afternoon we made preparations. Got a hammer made; put handle in it -- purchased material and had a bag made for carrying specimens; and got other necessary articles ready ----  Aug. 16 --  We started on our excursion about 6 ½ a.m. The direction S.E. from the    [51]  School, which however was soon changed to nearer E. was taken. We made selections of specimens along the route. At 11 ½, we reached the end of Nittany Mt. Kept along the N.W. base for several miles, and then ascended it. Continued along in the direction of the range, not however on the summit, but between two ridges, until we came to a road which crosses through Logan’s Gap. Here we were met by Church who brought our dinners in a buggy. We partook quite heartily, and rested a short time -- Then crossed by
[52]  the rod road to the opposite side of ridge to the right of our direction. Made examinations near base of Mt. and at the end. After which we traveled homewards -- Reached here about 8 p.m. -- Our party consisted of Dr. Pugh, J. D. Isett, L. C. Troutman, Eckman, McCormick, Holliday, Banks, Smith, Church, and myself. We traveled about 20 miles and obtained some valuable specimens. We had supper shortly after our arrival, which was no doubt relished by all -- Our Society being in session, I attended, but it adjourned a few minutes after.     [53]  Aug. 17 -- Felt somewhat exhausted this morning. Took a short walk to wear away the stiffness -- Studied Chemistry lesson and recited at 11 ½ a.m. After dinner washed myself from head to foot. Read papers for an hour or so after ---- Went out ot the woods this evening to meditate on a subject for a speech, to be spoken in Chapel tonight. The speaking was however postponed --  Sunday, August 18--  Was at Bible Class this forenoon. After it was over I read till dinner time, walked out to the corn-
[54]  field with Isett J.D., Isett J.H., Wetmore & Church. Preaching was at 3 p.m.. We went out tonight with the intention of cooking some corn, but our party got seperated [sic], and the division with which I was gave up the project ----  August 19----  I again commenced work in Laboratory. Was there from 9 till 11 ½ a.m, of and from 2 till 4 p.m. Prof. Whitman did not meet our Class today ---- Spoke in chapel this evening my speech was en-    [55]  tirely original, part of it having been previously written out, and the other extemporaneous. What was quite pleasing to me, it was considerably applauded -- Isett J.H. & McCormick declaimed ----  August 20----  After getting through with studies this morning, I went to Laboratory, and worked till 11 ½ O'clock. Was also there from 3 ½ till 5 p.m.. Wetmore, Harry Isett & I walked down the road after prayers. We were gone but a short time -------------  Aug 21 --    At 7 O'clock, a.m., all the students assembled
[56]  in third Story Recitation Room, to hear hear a lecture on veterinary. It was delivered by Dr. Jennings of Philada.-, who has been employed to give us a course. He is author of the work on this science which we now study. His lecture lasted through an hour, and to me it was not very interesting. I did not take any notes. -- Worked in the Laboratory all the remainder of the day, except when at class --     We all met in upper recitation room this evening, and after prayers, had another lecture on veterinary.    [57]  Aug. 22 -- We had two lectures today on veterinary, one at 6 a.. the other after prayers -- During this week I have employed as much time as possible in the Laboratory, being anxious to complete my analyses, as soon as I can do so --  Aug. 23 -- The Class finished Geology this afternoon. On account of lecture this evening, the societies could not meet before 8 ¼ O'clock -- Nothing was done in our Society except the reading of Anonymous papers -- I visited the Cresson, then went to Wetmore’s room.
[58]  August 24 ------ At 11 o’cl. a.m. I obtained permission for our class to go to Boalsburg in the afternoon; some of us wishing to have our photographs taken; others to bring theirs over, having had them taken previously -- We (Banks, Church, Eckman, Holliday, Isett J.D. & J.H., McCormick, Wetmore, & myself) left the School at 1 ½ O'clock p.m.. and were in Boalsburg at a quarter of three -- We visited the photograph establishment, and found the portraits unfinished, and what was done at them was so badly    [59]  executed that we concluded to patronize the establishment no longer -- The remainder of the day was employed in the viewing the “scenes” -- We started home at 8 p.m. None of us however were very much intoxicated, but just enough so to do a little mischief on the way. We examined the orchards on the road, and brought some corn from somebody’s field. We were here at 11 ½ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Sunday Aug. 25 --     We had Bible Class; and Episcopal at service at 4 ½ p.m.. and also at night -- I took a walk over the Farm
[60]  without company. This evening In [sic] Wetmore’s we cooked the corn which we procured last night --  Aug. 26 ---- At breakfast Dr. Pugh requested all the Students to assemble in the Chapel; immediately after which we did. He then called the roll, and all absentees were sent for. The His object in calling us together was, as he stated, to discover who had perpetrated a certain piece of mischief last night. One of the wheels was taken from the minister’s buggy, and could not be found this morning. The plan which    [61]  he adopted to make the discovery was to call the roll, and let each student say positively whether he had, or had not, done this act. Every answer given was in the negative. He dismissed us, remarking that if any one had told a lie it was a very serious matter -- Our first lecture on veterinary today as 12 ½ a.m. -- Other at usual time -- We recited Calculus after supper --   Aug. 27 ----     Veterinary Lect. was given after breakfast. I obtained an excuse from Prof. Wilson to go down to Store at 10 O'clock and bought a very large watermelon, which I
[62]  took to Wetmore’s. A few especial friends were called in, and it was speedily devoured. After lecture tonight a treat due the “Shaving Club” was given by Banks -- It consisted entirely of watermelons. In carrying one through the hall he came in collision with some person, which brought the melon to the floor. The pieces have been freely used for the purpose of throwing at persons who might be in the Hall, and ignorant of the trick which was being played -- Harry Isett, Lynn Troutman, Wetmore and I played several games at Euchre tonight ----    [63]  Aug. 28----     The Lectures today were given at 6 a.m. and 12 ½ p.m. -- The latter finished the course. I feel that I have been benefitted but little by these lectures. Although I attended regularly, I did not consider them interesting. I have taken no notes of them -- During the past few days I have not attended to my work in the Laboratory. My indolence now far exceeds the industry with which I continued my manipulation a week ago.   Aug. 29----     I had the whole forenoon for study, but did not do much at it -- I assisted for
[64]  a few moments minutes in preparing some reagents -- Did not attend recitation in Calculus this afternoon -- We had a fine shower about 5 O'clock. J.D. Isett & I walked down to the road this evening ----  Aug 30 ----     We made another Geological excursion this afternoon. At 1 ½ p.m.. The class went in a direction S.E. from the School, and when about ¾ of mile distant we turned our course nearer E -- We made examinations of rocks, and selected specimens in fields, until we reached the end of Nittany Mountain. We were met there by the wagon, which     [65]  carried tools for making excavations. We were quite successful in finding a number of fossilferous specimens -- It was getting late when we started for the School, But by by walking rapidly we reached it about 8 O'clock -- As usual on occasions like this, we made inroad into several orchards, and were more pleased with the Specimens there obtained, than with any yielded by “mother Earth[”] -- It was necessary for us to pass through a corn field in which grew a quantity of pumpkins, which afforded an opportunity for a combat, and many a young pumpkin was
[66]  sent through the air a la bombshell -- At one time I left the party to examine some rocks for crystals, but instead of finding what I desired, I got into a Yellow-Jackets nest and was most mercilessly used by them. -- I did not go to Society after returning, but played Euchre in Wetmore’s room ------------  Aug. 30 --     This morning I attempted to study, but found it impossible -- We did not recite our Chemistry. Another load of melons came today and I have partaken quite freely ----
[67]  [back cover]
