Transcript




1.  Diary -------- 1860    -------------  February 16.  At 8 O’Clock am we left Spruce Creek for the Farmer’s High School, a number of students arrived at S.C. with the trains last night and this morning -- There being snow on the ground to the depth of eight or ten inches we came to the School on sleds - and of course had some amusement on the road. We took dinner in Pine Grove, at Capt. Dunlap’s Hotel -- and arrived at the School about 3 O’clock, Paid my tuition fee ($100) to Prof Waring - and took
2.   Room 69. Fourth Story - with John Wilson of Mill Creek, where I expect to room during the session.  Feb 17 - There were about 65 students here this morning. More have arrived during the day. -- About forty of those now here were students of last year  Feb 18. Today throughout, has been very cold - some snow has fallen - We have not yet commenced our work or studies, but have spent the day in visiting from room to room.  Feb 19. (Sunday) This morning I was on the feeding detail - We had preaching in Chapel at 3 o-clock -- I     3.  commenced reading Irving’s Life of Washington, which I obtained from the Washington Agricultural Literary Society’s Library yesterday.   Feb 20.  Our class recited to Prof Allison this morning - Also commenced Grays Structural and Systematic Botany - Fed the Cattle today - I have played several games of chess with Glen - and have been beaten.  Feb 21. Prof. Allison was unable to hear our recitation in Rhetoric today -- Wrote a letter to Mother this evening. The snow is disappearing --
4.   Feb 22. Lessons were assigned our Class in Surveying and Geometry today by Prof Wilson - We commenced regular work today - I chopped wood from 7 ½ till 9 o’clock a.m.  Feb 23. Prof Waring gave our Class a lecture on Practical Horticultrue today -  Feb 24. Recited first lesson in Surveying at 10 O’Clock am. Attended meeting of the W.A. Literary Society, and was elected Cor.. Secretary - Received my Certificate of membership - signed by W.S. Bullock, Pres. and C.E. Troutman, Secretary.   Feb 25. This Saturday, we are at leisure this afternoon-     5.  “Budget of Fun” was received from Decatur today. He is now in Harrisburg attending the Republican Convention.  Feb 26. Bible Class at 10 am Preaching at 3 PM - Wrote to Harry West this afternoon  Feb 27 - I layed a board walk in front of the Carpenter Shop this morning - very pleasant weather --   Feb 28. Wrote fourteen letters on Society business today - and have made some preparation for debate on Friday evening -   Feb 29. -- I have not read any in the Life of Washington today - a duty which has not been omitted since the 19th
6.  March 1, 1860 - Received a long letter from Harry West today - We have had several heavy showers --   March 2. Our Society met this evening - Six new members were elected. I read my report as Librarian - which office I have held since last session -- I also debated. Our Question was - Is man governed more by his Passions Than by Reason” My colleague on The Aff. was J.S. Read - Debaters on Neg. Were J.D. Isett and Ike Mills - Decided in favor of the Affirmative --    March 3. Received a short letter from home -- Went to work    7.   at stone picking this morning.   March 4. Bible Class and Preaching at usual time Wrote to Annie  March 6. Finished reading the first vol. of The Life of Washington -- Received a letter from Horace B. Rutherford of Philadelphia --   March 7. We were threshing out wheat today in the Barn. Prof Allison failed to meet our Class at the ringing of the bell After waiting 5 minutes we adjourned without reciting. Prof Wilson made quite a display of a little authority, in Chapel this evening. He should not attempt to influence students
8.   by the use of such disgusting language.  March 8. We commenced plowing this morning -- Ike Mills and I kept a team in operation.   March 9. There was about two inches of snow on the ground this morning. We continued plowing however, and also commenced sowing Clover seed - The regular meeting of our Society was held this evening - Presented a bill for articles used in correspondence for the Society, which was accepted -- Our debate this evening was rather uninteresting --   March 10. Received a copy of the Shirleyburg [sic, should read Shirleysburg] Herald from Decatur, having in it a commu-    9.   nication on the county superintendency, written by himself. He also speaks of the students of the Farmers High School, and gives a complimentary notice of those from Huntingdon County. J.D. Isett and I were plowing this morning.  March 11. Preaching and Bible Class as usual. Took a walk in company with Isett, Young, Bullock and others -  March 12. Martin and I were put on the wood detail this morning - Finished the second vol. of the Life of Washington at 10 o’clock P.M. Considerable wind and some snow today --
10.  March 13. Received a letter from Decatur today - He gave a short account of his visit to Harrisburg on 22nd of Feb.  March 14. Commenced the third vol. of the Life of Washington. A letter from Murdock, containing $1 for W.A.L.S. certificate, was received.  March 15. Yesterday at 1 O’Clock I started for Spruce Creek, with the wagon. Reached home at 8 O’clock PM -- This morning I left S.C. with a load of goods for the school. I had but a short stay at home, but it was nonetheless very pleasant. -- Society met this evening, was not on performance    11.   March 20. I  delivered a declamation in Chapel after prayer this evening - my exercise was the poem entitled The World for Sale  March 21. The Second and Third Classes met in Laboratory, at 1 o’clock, to make preparations for commencing Chemistry - Lectures are to be given by Dr. Pugh -- Our class finished Rhetoric, and commenced reviewing it.  March 22. Dr. Pugh gave his first lecture at 10 O’clock - of which I took notes.   March 23. W.A.S. [possible misprint. Assuming Lytle means W.A.L. Society met this evening - I was unable to get to the meeting until it was about half over - Did not engage in any of the exercises.
12.  March 29. I attended Shinn this morning - He is completely deranged, having the inflammation of the brain. Wrote to John this evening.  March 30. Shinn still requires attendance - In Society I proposed Robinson as a member, He was elected. Bullock and I were appointed on the Aff. of debate. Question: “Would we be benefited by a high protective tariff” Myself and Colleague had no time to make any preparation on this question, while our opponents had their arguments well arranged. We were unsuccessful, but gave our opponents some trouble.     13.  April 1st 1860. Was not at Bible Class or preaching, but staid with Shinn all day. Dr. Pugh thinks it a case of confirmed[?] insanity.  Apr. 3. Received a letter from Marion - He says “On Saturday I went to Huntingdon and made arrangements with Wilson and Petriken [probably R. Bruce Petrikin. See John F. Meginniss, History of Lycoming County Pennsylvania (Chicago: Brown, Runk, and Co., 1892)  p. 474] to study (Law) with them during the summer, or as long as I wish to remain. They are anxious to receive me and will charge me nothing.”  Apr. 4. Wrote to Decatur today.  Our class commenced Chemical manipulations in the Laboratory, today -- Prof Wilson returned last night --
14.  Apr. 5. Read “Miles Standish” while staying with Shinn this morning - Wrote to Marion this evening  Apr 6 - Was on debate this evening in Society - Question: Would the U.S. be benefitted by a total abolition of slavery. I was on the neg. but the question was decided in favor of the Aff.   Apr. 7 Shinn has been taken to an Insane Asylum so that I went to plowing this morning again -- Finished the third vol. of the Life of Washington and returned it to the Library -- The fourth vol. being out I could not      15.  procure it -- Wrote to Father - sent him my grades for Feb. + March  Apr. 9. Rained this morning - We again got to Threshing. Dr. Pugh has gone to New York to buy Chemical apparatus  Apr. 11. Being unwell This morning, I did not go out to work - Played Chess with Glenn  Apr 13. Society met this evening -- I was not on performance.-- After both Societies adjourned, a number of members from each met in the Cresson Hall. We had some amusing exercises - such as comic songs - speeches, & c.  Apr. 19. Marion Says in a letter received today, “I intend
16.  going to Huntingdon on or about the first of May. Law [or Love?] & Fox are anxious to have me remain, but I do not suppose they will be willing to pay as much as I consider my services worth: Instead of taking $20 per month I would ask $32, which would leave me $20 after paying my boarding.”  Apr 20. Attended Society this evening, The Secretary being absent I was appointed Sec. pro term. -- and also read an essay on Abolitionism.  Apr 21. Received a letter from Father containing money to pay for my books.    17.   Apr 30. Our Class went out Botanizing this afternoon. Hinckley, Eckman, Troutman L. and I went to the summit of Tussey Mountain  May 5 1860. J.D. Isett, Hill, and I went to Boalsburg this afternoon to take a look at the “Soldiers” We took a few glasses of lager, examined the military &c. and then started for school in a run.  May 18. The Society met, I was on debate -- question “Would a general European war be beneficial to the U.S.” Decided in favor of the neg. -- I was elected Critic - instead of Mr. Causey - who resigned.
18.  May 28. Watts and Wox[?] have been arraigned before our Society on the charge of not attending to their duties as members. If found guilty they must be expelled. -- The defendants have received Ike Mills and myself as counsels -- Bullock and J.D. Isett are to act as attorneys for Society. The trial is to come off on Friday June 1.  May 31. Received a letter from Marion today. He is in Huntingdon reading law. He says “I am pleased with the Profession and am gratified to State that the firm appear to afford themselves pleasure in bestowing upon me    19  opportunities to excel”  June 1 1860. The case of the Society vs. Watts and Wox came up for trial in Society this evening. The prosecuting attorneys conducted their side with ability - Mills, for Defendant, made an able speech - The question “shall messrs Wox and Watts be expelled” was decided unanimously in favor of the neg. by the Society.  June 6 I did not attend recitation this afternoon, but studied a declamation; and spoke it in Chapel this evening.  June 15. I was elected President of the W.A.S. [does he mean W.A.L.?] Society this evening - The vote was unanimous ---
20.  June 16. After dinner the Students met in the Chapel to make arrangements for holding a fourth of July Celebration. I was elected chairman of the meeting, and was also chosen as a speaker for the occasion.  June 19. Commenced preparing an Inaugural Address for Society, on taking the Chair  June 22. Delivered my address before Society this evening, and took the chair. It was received with great applause. -- We had good performances and good order  June 23. This afternoon I commenced my 4th of July Oration.    21.  June 29. I have been very unwell since the 24th inst. Was not at Society this evening. Frank, Watts, V. President will preside.  July 4, 1860. Father and Mr. Dorsey arrived here about 10 o’clock, Dr. Thompson and Miss Lucy Isett - and Decatur and Miss Annie Isett arrived shortly after. They found me in a very bad condition. My face is terribly swollen with the Erysipelas - and of course I did not deliver any Oration. Father & Dorsey went home this afternoon - The other party went down to Thompson’s to stay till tomorrow -- I will then go home with them.
22.  Spruce Creek, July 5. This morning at 9 O’Clock we left the school - Harry Isett brought me in a carriage He stopped at several places to get Cherries. Reached home at 4 O’clock.    23  August 5 1860, Farm School,  I have been at home just one month. Was sick about one week after getting home -- I enjoyed myself very much during the subsequent three weeks, attended several Cotillion Parties at the Keystone, and made the acquaintance of Miss Clarke. Took several excursions on horse back with her &c --   I arrived here last night at 10 O’clock -- We left S.C. in stage yesterday morning. J.H.Isett, J.D. Isett and I stayed at Pine Grove till evening, and hired a tram to bring us to school. I slept in Holliday room last night. Did not get
24.   up in time for breakfast, and was not at Church or Bible Class today -   Aug 31 Commenced the publication of The Eclipse - A paper which is to read [sic] before our Society semi-monthly Tom Roberts, AJ Fisher, Harry Graffer [sic], and myself are associated together in this, under the name of The Club of Choice Spirits - I have assumed the nom de plume of Sir Roger De Coverley, and was Editor of the political department for this number. We had a very interesting meeting of Society tonight - Some very warm debating, in which    25.  I had the privilege of engaging. I am now on Three Committees, which must transact their business soon - I have a declamation to learn for Wednesday night, and an essay to write for Friday.  Sept 1 1860. Having finished reading The Life and Works of Goldsmith I returned them to the Library today. Got Boswell’s Life of Johnson and commenced perusing it-- Discharged my duty as chairman of our committee, I hear the Eclipse highly spoken of today -- It is said to surpass the “Washingtonian” Our neighbors upstairs will not like this -- I shall try to get hold of the Literary
26.  Departments for next number, as I am not much interested in Politics at present. We had a lecture in the Chapel this morning by Mung Shaw Loo, a native of Burmah, who has come to this country to be educated -- He is now a student in the University of Lewisburg, His Lecture was on the customs etc. of his countrymen, It was rather short.  Sept. 3. Our class went down to the Stage office this morning to see Fockler off. He made a brief farewell address. The Eclipse has created some excitement among the members of the Washington     27. Society - many of them suspect me of having something to do with it - but they cannot determine positively -- Ike Mills is very anxious to know something about it . He is in great suspense He feels that much of his popularity has been lost lately and he is evidently very sensibly exercised -- I hope he may profit by the lesson.   Sept. 4 Letters from Marion and R. Milton Speer were received today. Marion refers the business of which I spoke to him in my last letter to Speer. We can get 400 or 500 copies of our paper printed for $30. It will require 60 closely written
28.  pages of foolscap to fill it. Whether we can raise the money and get enough manuscript is yet to be determined. I must call a meeting of our Club tomorrow. -- Marion says “I leave Huntingdon today for good, or at least until Spring. I commence teaching in Spruce Creek on Tuesday or Wednesday next.” Dr. Pugh is having the building scrubbed out today. This evening the Halls and Chapel are still damp, so that we had no prayers. The Trustees and Delegates meet here tomorrow. Tom Roberts brought some game which he shot today, to my     29.  room. We cooked them, and they soon disappeared. Being afraid that Prof. Allison might stray around into this corner, we were obliged to finish the job in short order. Scarcely were we through when the Prof knocked - He did not know that we had been guilty of any punishable offense. I have read some in the Life of Johnson Today.  Sept 5. A number of Trustees and Delegates met here today. The delegates from Huntingdon County were J.S. Isett [Isett was a founder and recording secretary of a Huntingdon agricultural society. See A History of the Juniata Valley and Its People, John W. Jordan, ed. (New York: Lewis Historical Publishing, 1913)] and Miller. I did not attend recitation this morning on account of being sent[?] down to Centre
30.  Furnace by Prof. Waring. Messrs Bullock, Cooper, Mills, Hinckley, Young, + Snively, met in my room to consult on the mode of getting up our paper. We concluded that I should write to Speer, and see if he could not print one which would be something smaller than The Huntingdon Union. We are all to have some articles written by next Saturday a week, when they are to be handed in for criticism. The name of the paper is to be The Giganticus Bullgrowzer[?]. I must write to Speer by Monday. My declamation which was     31.  to come off this evening was postponed on account of some irregularity occasioned by the visit of the Trustees. I must positively write my essay tomorrow. - I can think of no subject on which I feel that I can write very fluently. Tom Roberts and I went out tonight to make astronomical observations. We only got a sight of Venus. We were much alarmed by the sound of approaching footsteps. We reached our rooms with uninjured limbs, and without being seen by the faculty.   Sept 6. After coming in from work this morning, the
32.   Second Class went to the Laboratory where we were engaged until dinner time. Commenced my essay this evening - and have it about half finished. I have taken for my subject the Influences of Reason and the Passions on the Actions of Mankind. My declamation was again postponed. There is still some excitement concerning the Eclipse.   Sept. 7. After supper I finished the essay that I commenced yesterday. In Society I read my report as chairman of the Committee for arranging the Classes so that our third of the members would be on performance at such meet-    33.  ing. I also read my essay. The Critics said nothing about it. - We had a variety of papers in the Anonymous Box tonight. The Washingtonian has dwindled down to five or six pages. It said that a new paper called the Eclipse had made its appearance, and that it was a very good one. There were a number of smaller papers. The “Sharp Stick” attacked me very severely - The “Critic” says that the Eclipse is superior to the Washingtonian - but that both are dry. The “Humming Bird” + The “Scorpion” are small papers of but little value. I brought up several resolutions before the Society. The President appointed me to
34.  debate instead of Mr. Parker who was unprepared - Bullock was my colleague on the Affirmative - Martin objected to my appointment alleging that he and Robinson were unable to debate against the two best debaters in the Society - The question was “Is slavery considered by the people of the U.S. as a constitutional institution.” It was decided in favor of the neg. I was appointed to deliver an oration on the 21st inst.  Sept 8. I did not declaim the piece in Chapel this morning that I had intended, but I took instead an extract from my Inaugural Address. Martin also declaimed. After     35.  prayers Wetmore and I were excused to go to a political meeting which was to be held in the School house this side of Centre Furnace. It was very dark and muddy having just quit raining -- After we had started we heard that no meeting was to be held -- We returned to our rooms.  Sept 9. I commenced the Second vol. of the Life of Johnson today -- Bible Class at 8 ½ O’Clock, Preaching at 3 P.M.   Sept 10.   I wrote to Mother this morning, and also wrote the following letter to Speer.   “R.M. Speer,   Dir Sir, Immediately
36.   after receiving your letter I called a meeting of our Club, for the purpose of considering your proposal. We are willing to pay $30 for the printing of 500 copies of the size of The Union. but are somewhat doubtful whether we could prepare 60 pages of original matter by the time it will be necessary to print them. If you could decrease the size of the paper, say one column on each page and shorter in proportion, we could have the manuscript ready by the last of November - Let us know whether you can do this and also send a copy of The Union.   Yours Respy.     37. Today  I commenced an article for the next number of The Eclipse entitled A Brief Account of the Club of Choice Spirits -- In compliance with a request from our Society, I copied my Inaugural Address - and also my last essay, with a view to having them placed in The Archives of The Society -- After Chapel exercises, Dr. Pugh made a speech on our anonymous papers. He commenced by saying “That it is very desirable that we should have Literary Societies - Spoke of their objects and advantages - These societies should be allowed as much freedom as possible - but this
38.  freedom should not be abused. He referred to one of the Societies as having been already guilty of abusing the privileges allowed them, in reading certain anonymous communications, which ought not to be tolerated. He said that the Society had made a poor selection of officers. Recommended that a committee be appointed to examine these papers and say which should be read and which not. He did not give the Society time to take any action on this, but proceeded to appoint a committee himself. The Doctor should know that his committee has no power to act -- The     39.  Members of the Society are very indignant. They threaten to dissolve the Society if Dr. Pugh interferes in our business again. I am with them.  Sept 11. This morning after prayers, Dr. Pugh discharged his committee. He said that he had been assured that the Society would take some measures in this affair - but I think that he was led to this step by the indignation which was manifested by our members.   I finished my account of our Club after supper, and read it to Tom Roberts (Pickwick) Since the organization of our Club we have received AM Parker (Toothpick
40.  Sept 13.  Causey and I bought and eat about a peck of peaches today, and of course have been unfit for very active duties since - Received a letter from Speer He says that he cannot decrease the size of our paper, but thinks that we can easily prepare 60 pages in one month -  Roberts and Fisher handed me their articles for the Eclipse this morning.  Sept 14.  Gaffen failed to propose his department this week, so that Tom Roberts and I were obliged to write it after supper. Our paper was very poorly read this evening. A motion was made “that we     41.  consider Dr. Pugh no longer an honorary member of our Society.” This was debated upon for some time. I did not recommend the passage of this resolution- but was of the opinion that Dr. Pugh had done wrong in bringing the private business of our Society before the School. The motion was not passed. A motion was made “that a committee be appointed to draft a constitution for the Anonymous Box” This motion came from the Committee that was appointed by Dr. Pugh to examine our papers. I spoke twice on this motion. We should regard Dr. Pugh as a gentleman, He was entitled to our respect
42.  as President of the Institution, but we could not acknowledge that he had any more power in our Society than any other honorary member. As for a constitution for the Anonymous box it was worse than nonsense. Our Society had a constitution. And it answers for every part of the Society. We do not need separate constitutions for each branch of the Society. Bullock and Mills favored the passage of the motion - It was however lost, and our Anonymous Box is to have no “Constitution”   Sept 15. I returned the first two vols. of The Life of     43.  Johnson to the Library, and have concluded not to read the remaining volumes for a few weeks. I brought out Addison’s Spectator, and am now perusing it. Our Association held a meeting today to see about our paper. We have decided to give up the enterprise. Some of our members are evidently afraid of the Faculty. The following letters were received.   Farm School, Sept 15  Gents - Please accept this as my resignation from any participation in the affair well known to you. I do this in preference to being present to hear aught that may be proposed. But rest assured your matter is held sacred by me.   W.S.B.(ullock)
44.  Farm School, Sept 15  In view of my inability to take part in the Editorship of your paper - and for several other reasons I beg leave to resign my position as assistant Editor of your paper. Rest assured however, I will maintain the utmost secrecy in regard to your paper.   C.R. Hinckley  After considering these resignations we thought it best not to publish any paper, as we did not wish those who had no hand in it to know at all about it.  After prayers, a greater part of the Students went down to the School House to a political meeting, A Republican Can-    45.  didate for Congress made a speech. Dr. Pugh made a few remarks, full of Abolitionism.   Sept 17.  Dr. Pugh threatens to expel any person who accuses another of being a member of a Vigilance Committee.  Sept 18. This morning after prayers, Harvey, in behalf of the Students, presented to Prof Allison a Bible, Testament, and Hymn Book, as a Token of esteem. Harvey made a brief but appropriate address, to which the Pr[missing] responded, after which [remainder of page missing]
46.   forth a few ideas for an Oration, in which I was partially successful. - Each of the Students received a copy of Dr. Pugh’s Inaugural Address - delivered some time ago. A letter from Decatur came to hand. Marion is now teaching in Spruce Creek. Porters will move into their new house on Monday.   Sept 19. Instead of going out to work this morning, I stayed in my room and read The Spectator. Magraw, McAllister, The two Frontsman and [remainder of page missing]    47.  Abe was taken down and burned. The poor fellow perished in the flames. His last cry was “Save me from my friends. The committee appointed to purchase books for the W.A.S. Society met in my room this evening. The committee consists of Mills, Brennerman,, Chamberlain, Parker, and myself. We have selected books to the amount of $20 for which we will send immediately.   Sept 21: Our Class commenced to review Chemistry. We will recite 20 pages until we finish. I was kept in the Laboratory till late this evening, and did not get to
48.  Society until about half an hour after order was called - On account of a very severe cold the Society excused me from performance, Mills, Chairman of Committee on books, stated the progress that the Committee had made. He asked the Society to take a vote on the Books that had been selected, at the same time telling them that he had proposed Bancroft's History of the United States - but the majority of the Committee had voted against it, and asked the Society to have it purchased instead of some others that had been selected. I remarked that when Bancroft’s History    49.   had been proposed The Committee considered it unadvisable to purchase it at present. Only eight or ten ten [sic] volumes had been published, and it was sold for $16. In a few years we could obtain a greater number of vols. for a less price than now. Besides if the books that Mr. Mills proposed had been selected, he would have said nothing to the Society about them, but as he had not been pleased, he asked the Society to change the Selection, I thought that the Committee had consulted the interests of those by whom they were appointed. I moved, therefore, “That the books selected by the Committee
50.  be purchased.” This motion was carried almost unanimously. The resolutions which I brought before the Society some time ago were passed. Mr. Foster moved “that only one half of the money stolen from our Treasurer, Mr. Dickson, be received by the Society” Bullock, Mills, and several others spoke against this motion. They stated that the Treasurer had charge of our money, and was therefore responsible for all that was lost. They recommended that Dickson pay the money and that it be refunded to him by subscription. Forster then withdrew his motion, I then moved that “the     51.  Society do not receive any money from MR. Dickson, instead of that stolen from him. This met with some opposition, but was passed Mills and Bullock could not defeat it.  Sept 22. This evening about three-fourths of the Students went to a concert at Boalsburg. Tom Roberts, Parker, and myself took a tramp over the country, we met with no very stirring adventures in our moonlight ramble. Wetmore spoke to me today about the Bullgrowzer [?]. He is anxious that it should be published. Young handed me an article for it - I am willing to do my part in getting it out.
  52.  Sept 23. The Hudson Brothers were here today. They sang in Church, and also at prayers. We had Bible Class at 8 ½ O’C.  Sept. 24 Young and Sniveley started home this morning. The Second + Third Classes went to the Stage Office to see them off The faculty had a meeting this forenoon. They suspended Marten for going away on Saturday night without permission - and sent Barnes out in search of the person that gave enough whiskey to make him drunk. Wetmore, Cooper, and I had a talk today in reference to our paper. We have decided to continue it. Young and Snively     53.   are to write articles and send them to us. Wrote a short letter to Decatur -  Sept 25. John Wilson, my room-mate, went home on a visit today -- Wrote to Speer.   “R.M.Speer,  “Dear Sir, Everything concerning our paper must be conducted very secretly, so that we have deemed it inexpedient to make it very lengthy, and as a last resort would ask you to print half a sheet for us. We could easily prepare sufficient original matter to fill a paper as large as the Union, but the less time we employ upon it the less is probability
54.  of being detected. On half a sheet we hope to be able to lay before the public all the most interesting and amusing scenes and incidents that have transpired at this Institution during the present session. Mr. Wetmore, one of our Club, is now in Huntingdon, If this reaches you before he leaves, and he does not call to see you, perhaps it would be advisable for you to see him.   Yours Respy --   Sept. 26. Commenced raising potatoes today - I have counsell [?] today - Was in the Laboratory this afternoon-  Retired early.    55.   Sept 27. Wrote three pages for the Eclipse this evening. Roberts has read them, and pronounces them splendid -- Received a letter from Marion. All right at home - I have neglected my reading for some time must not be so negligent hereafter.  Sept 28. Our Society elected officers this evening - J.H. Isett was selected President. Tom Roberts and I were elected marshalls. The Eclipse was pretty well read and created some amusement. I delivered an oration on the Secret of Success. The President appointed me to deliver an extemporaneous speech on the Benefits of Anonymous
56.   Writings. Ike Mills spoke on the evils of Anonymous writings, and Parker on the Future of our Country. The President informed the Society that an official challenge had come from The Cresson Society for a Contest Debate. A motion to accept it was passed unanimously. Troutman, Parker, and Hinckley were appointed to confer with the Committee from the Cresson. We then voted for Contestors. Bullock had 7 votes; Mills 19, and I, 23. Ike and I were elected. We then challenged the Cresson to compete in Declamation. They accepted     57.  the Challenge. We then elected Parker, Troutman C. and Craig W. declaimers. The Cresson Society has not yet Selected contestors. I am appointed on Debate for Oct. 12.   Sept. 29. This morning on coming in from work we found the College doors locked, and were informed that the Faculty were searching for stolen goods. Some time ago $9 were taken from the Trunk of our Treasurer, and since that two watches have been stolen. Our Class was let in, and we were then locked up in Dr. Pugh’s office. The Third Class was in the Third Story Recitation Room, and the Fourth
58.  Class in the Reading Room. The Third + Fourth Classes were first searched. our Class was then taken out, one at a time, and searched. Nothing was found to lead to the detection of the thief. - I returned the Spectator and got the Tattler and Hazlitt’s Spirit of the Age [the Spirit of the Age was a collection of  biographical sketches of prominent men published by the English essayist, William Hazlitt in 1825] from the Library. At four O’clock a committee, consisting of Mills, Wox, Smith, Troutman &  John Miles, and myself met in the Kitchen to decide upon the merits of some potatoes that Prof Waring had had cooked -- He was very well pleased with our decisions. I received a package, containing clothing, a letter and     59.  money, from home today. John Wilson returned from home this evening.  Sept 30 Very cold this morning -- no fire in the Furnaces -- Commenced a letter to Marion, but did not get it finished. -- We had Bible Class and Preaching today. I understand that $15 has been stolen from Robinson lately.  Oct 1 1860 -- We could not work out of doors this morning on account of the rain. This evening I wrote a petition to the Faculty, asking permission for our class to attend the Fair at Bellefonte on Wednesday next. It was signed by the members of
60.  The Class and handed to Prof. Whitman.  Oct 2. I commenced an article for the Eclipse, entitled A Sketch of the Ancient and Very Respectable Bullgrowzer[?] Family. With a brief account of a Recent Visit to the Bullgrowzer[?] mansion. I went to see Dr Pugh, after Prayers, in regard to our Petition. It was not granted. I then procured a list of those who had sent articles to the Fair, and obtained permission to go tomorrow morning and return before Thursday.  Oct. 4. Yesterday morning at 8 o’clock a wagon load, consisting of Causey,     61.  Eckman, Holliday, Mills, Isett J.D., Isett J.H., Frontman C. Frontman S. Forster, and myself, started to Bellefonte. We put up at the Conrad House Did not go out to the Fair ground till after dinner -- Traveled around the grounds till 5’ O’clock, when I was introduced to Miss Ryrman and Miss McCoy, with whom Harry Isett and I walked out the Cemetery Here we spent an hour in conversation -- and then went to the residence of Miss McCoy. We here made the acquaintance of her two sisters, and remained till 9 o’clock. We left Bellefonte and reached School before 12.
62.  Although later than usual in getting to bed last night, I was out in time for Prayers this morning and went to work. We have been informed that the Committee from the Cresson Society have selected the following question for our Contest debate “Are the inequalities of rank and condition in Society favorable to the advancement of learning.” Ike + I have concluded to take the affirmative.   Oct 5. I went to the Library today to examine some of our books in reference to our Contest Debate. Brought out Bacon’s Works, Rollins Works, and Macauley’s Essays. Found nothing of any value. Except a very little in Bacon. Ike Mills and I selected our question for OCt 12. It is “Was the fate of Sir Walter Raleigh a deserved one[“] - I was not on regular performance in Society tonight - but there being three debaters absent Bullock was appointed to assist Lobengier on The Aff. and I + Brenneman were appointed on the neg. question “Which is the more beneficial to Society, the Farmer or Mechanic” It was decided in favor of the neg. Our Committee reported that the 26th of Oct had been se-
63.  lected for the Contest. Tom Roberts + I entered upon our duties as Marshalls.  Oct 6. Returned some books today, and procured vols VII, IX, X, + XI of The Encyclopedia Americana. I have taken notes of all that I have found that can be applied as arguments on our Debate -- Received several articles from J.A. Young, and also a letter. The Cresson Society has selected Banks and Cooper as Debaters, and Troutman S. Harvey, and Wetmore as Declaimers.  Oct 8. I did not go to the Laboratory this afternoon, but employed my time in perusing Bacon’s Advancement of Learning, and in examining the Encyclopedia.   Oct 9. All the Students who had votes went to Boalsburg this afternoon. We had no recitations at all today. Great disorder in the College -- Prof. Waring is unable to preserve order. At supper some were singing songs - others stamping on the floor +etc. -- no improvement at prayers -- Dr. Pugh has gone away -- Some of the Students are now amusing by discharging an old musket on the Fifth Story.  Oct 10. News came today that Curtin had over 20,000 majority - considerable excite-
66.  ment was occasioned by this intelligence. At supper the Missers. Hunter refused to bring any bread to the table on account of the noise. Many of the Students were determined to remain at the Table till bread was brought. Profs. Waring and Whitman upheld the action of The Cooks -- During the excitement Prof. Wilson arrived and at once ordered the proper victuals to be put on the table. I wrote a paper for the Eclipse today. We have decided to do nothing more with the Bullgrowzer till the contest is over.   Oct 11. Wrote another article (The Contest) for the Eclipse today. I have not done much except hunt up a few facts in regard to     67.  Sir Walter Raleigh.  Oct 12 -- I continued writing for our paper today. It created quite a sensation in Society tonight. Our Editor reads well, but he omitted some of our best articles. The question for debate was “Was the fate of Sir Walter Raleigh a deserved one.” On the Aff. was Mills and Kirtenbock[?], on the neg. myself +Tom Roberts. It was decided in favor of the negative. We had several visitors from the Cresson, among whom were Banks + Cooper, our opponents on Contest Debate.   Oct 13  I brought from the Library today the History of the Reformation, Cyclopedia of English Literature,
68.  Curiosities of Literature, Hallam’s Middle Ages, + Encyclopedia Americana (vol 1.) Read a part of the State of Society during the Middle Ages. Some of the Students have a large bonfire burning on the commons tonight.  Oct 14. Wrote to Decatur, and also to J.A. Young today. Went to Bible Class and Preaching. Read Hallam’s History of France during the Middle Ages.  Oct 15. I have been unwell today - Read a little on the Encyclopedia  Oct 16.  Being unwell I did no go to work nor attend recitations this morning. I commenced today to write out my arguments for     69.  Contest. Received a letter from Decatur. Regina has been sick for a week, but is now better. I was in the Laboratory a short time this afternoon.  Oct 19. I attained my eighteenth (18) year today. Attended Society, but was not on performance.  Oct 24. This morning J.D. Clark was brought before the Faculty on the charge of having been guilty of the stealing done some time ago. He was detected by the ingenuity of Dr. Pugh. The articles were found in the Barn, and Dr. Pugh appointed a Detail to sweep the Barn out. Clarke in order to save them went to remove them, and was thus detected.
70.  October 26. The Contest is over. The exercise commenced about 7 ½ O’clock P.M.   Captain W.W. Potter occupied the Chair. The Committee on decisions were Dr. Pugh, Prof Waring & Wilson. There were quite a number of visitors present, from Bellefonte, Boalsburg, etc.   Programme     Declamation  C.E. Trouttman - W.A. L..S.  L.C. Troutman - C.L.S.    W. Craig  - W.A. L.S.  H.T. Harvey - C.L.S.    A.M. Parker  - W.A. L..S.  G.R. Wetmore  - C.L.S.     Music by the Glee Club between such two Declamations --     71.  Debate - Affirmative - myself and Ike Mills, negative, Banks &Cooper, Question: “Are the inequalities of rank and condition in Society favorable to the advancement of learning [?]”  The decisions were not given tonight.   Oct 27.  The Students assembled in the Chapel at 1 O’clock to hear the decisions on the contest. The Declamations were gained by the Washingtonians, and the Debate was decided in favor of the Affirmative. The Washingtonians have been rejoicing all afternoon. I have been highly complimented on my performance last night. Some of our members go so
72.   far as to say that my speech gained the Decision in our favor. I am willing to allow my colleague his share of the honor.  Nov. 2. Yesterday morning Harry Isett & I obtained permission from the Faculty to go to Bellefonte in the afternoon. We left the School at 4 O’clock P.M. After reaching Bellefonte we took supper - and at 8 O’clock we visited the Misses McCoy. --   We returned this morning. Our session in Society was short this evening. I offered a motion that we publish a Catalogue of  our Society. The motion was carried. A committee or publication, consisting of Ike Mills,    73.   C. E. Troutman, and myself (as Chairman) was appointed. The Society returned a vote of Thanks to her Champions, who so nobly defended her in the Contest. Received a letter from Speer.   Nov 3. The Committee met in Ike Mills’ room to commence preparing our Catalogue. We were engaged at it all afternoon, and are about half through. The books, for which we sent some time ago, came by stage today.   Nov. 5. I sent letters to W.S. Haven - Pittsburg - W.S. Young, Philadelphia - & King & Baird, Phia. on business concerning Catalogue. Also wrote to Speer and J.A. Young.
74.  December 11 1860. This morning all the students were very busy making preparations for going home We left the School at 11 O’clock, and arrived at Spruce Creek at 4. Tom Roberts, Lyeur[?] Troutman & John Wilson took supper with me. Most of those going East took the train at 10 O’clock P.M. Those going West staid at the Hotel. Wilson & Eckman remained all night with me. I found the Catalogues of our Society there when I arrived. They are very neatly printed --  I distributed several hundred to Students this evening. All were very anxious to get off, and of course expect a pleasant vacation.


  77.  Spruce Creek Dec. 26  Yesterday (Christmas ) I went down to Huntingdon in the Train at 9 O’clock a.m. Met Orbison and Tom Gregg. In the afternoon we went on a skating excursion. Our party consisted of Miss Benedict, Miss Hattie Campbell, Miss Clement, Watson, Lizzie Steel & Miss Hays. Mr. McMurtrie, Wallace, Gregg, Orbison, ------------ & myself -- Two hours were spent very pleasantly on the Ice, about a mile from town. At 7 ½  P.M. the same party, and a few others, met at Benedicts. Joe Green was present. This
78.   morning Joe and I called on Miss Watson. I left Huntingdon at 11 O’Clock. [Clipping:] “Presented a lively appearance -- The ice, on Christmas day.    79.  February 19th, 1861.  Since making the last entry I have been enjoying myself very much. Out frequently on sleighing and sledding excursions. On last Thursday week I went to Huntingdon. Attended parties on the evenings of Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. Went to Mill Creek on Saturday afternoon, and in the evening returned to Huntingdon - Came home on Sunday morning - The next day I went to Mooreseville to see my brother John and family stayed with them till
80.  Thursday. Went from there to Huntingdon. Attended party at Gwin’s on Thursday evening, and one at Crewetts on Friday evening -- Came home on Saturday night. Yesterday and today I have been busily engaged in making preparations for returning to the F.H.S. Wetmore arrived this morning on his way to school. There being no conveyance here he remained all day. He and I went to Tyrone by the 8 O’Clock train, and returned by the 10 O’Clock P.M. Several more students came this evening.    81.   Farmer’s High School  Feb 20, 1861.  About 9 O’Clock A.M. we started from Spruce Creek for this place. We came on Shultz’s wagon, our load consisting of J.W. Martin, J.D. Isett, C.E. and L.C. Troutman, G.R. Wetmore, W.A. Orbison, & myself. We took dinner at Pine Grove -- and arrived here about 3 O’Clock P.M. Engaged Room 95, Fifth Story -- and have been busy in cleaning out, arranging the furniture, &c. Paid my tuition fee ($100) to Dr. Pugh. There are thirty students here this evening.
82.  Feb 21. We did not get up very early this morning. Breakfast at 7 ½ O’Clock. The members of the first class received the following books today: Regnault’s[?] Chemistry, Zoology, Elements of Mechanics, and Calculus, Lessons were assigned us in Chemistry & Calculus -- About twenty students arrived today. We had Prayers in Chapel this evening. Tom Roberts, the Troutmans and myself went around calling on the new students immediately after Chapel exercises. The Catalogues of our     83.   Society evidently occasion considerable envy among the Cressons.  Feb 22. This morning I was on the feeding detail, with J.D. Isett and J.V. Martin. We were out but a short time -- This was the first work done this session by our Class. We recited Chemistry at 10 O’Clock. This afternoon has been rather dull. Nothing to do but visit from room to room. No students come today -- Our Society would have met if there had been a quorum.   Feb 20. After attending to my duties at the Barn,
84.  I studied my lessons in Chemistry & Calculus, and recited them from 10 till 12 O’Clock. Loafing around this afternoon. Several students arrived with the stage, Holliday, having engaged this room at the close of last session, moved in with me. This evening I got some of our Society Catalogues, and also some catalogues of the School, ready for sending away. Directed to Miss Hattie Campbell, Miss Maggie Watson, Miss Juniata Kessler, Mr. C. Anderum & J.F. Conrad.  Feb 24  (Sunday)  Our religious exer-    85.  -cises today consisted of regular prayers, and preaching at 3 O’Clock P.M. Walked out to the Woods this forenoon with Tom Roberts, and this afternoon with Troutman C. Roberts & McCoy. The air is cold and bracing.  Feb 25. Went out to work this morning. Did not remain the required time. Some of our detail, myself included, were put to cleaning up the Barn. We were not prepared to do such dirty work. Chemistry recited at 10 O’Clock. Lesson assigned in Zoology at 1, by Prof. Whitman, Calculus at 3 O’Clock
86.  After dinner our receipts for our tuition fee were given us.  This evening a number of students collected in my room. We amused ourselves by singing the Red, White, and Blue, Star Spangled Banner, &c. Dr. Pugh, after chapel exercises, appointed declaimers. These exercises are to be commenced as soon as those appointed can make preparations. I shall have to declaim this week.  Feb 26. Our detail this morning got the machine in order, and commenced threshing. Recitations in     87.  Chemistry at 9, in Calculus at 11, and in Zoology at 1 O’Clock. Wrote to Mother this evening -- The declaimers were Banks & Bullock. Having had but little time to prepare, they delivered extemporaneous speeches on the Signs of the Times. They did very well.  Feb 27. This morning I hauled manure from the Barn yard on to the Garden. -- I removed from room 95 to 99. W. Craig occupies 99 with me. Nothing to do today after 2 o’clock. Went to the store this afternoon with several of the Boys, and ate so much candy that I had no appetite for
88.  for Supper, Wetmore brought some HCL from Bellefonte today. The speakers not being prepared were excused.  Feb 28. Wrote to Young today in answer to a letter received about three weeks ago. Church & Eckman were the Speakers this evening. They did tolerably well. This pleasant weather is bringing the frost out of the ground so that it is very muddy, and therefore walking is rendered disagreeable. Stayed in my room all day, except during working and recitation hours. Spent the greater part of the evening with Hart. ---    89.  March 1 1861. Was not at work this morning. -- I wrote my report as chairman of Committee on Catalogues this afternoon. The Washington A. L. Society held a meeting this evening. I read my report, which was received, and delivered the catalogues that remained in my hands to the Society. Fifty copies were placed in the archives, and the remainder distributed.  I was appointed a member of the Financial Committee, to serve during the session. This Committee examines the accts. of the Treasurer at the expiration of each term of office and reports
90.   the same to Society -- I am to read History on the 8th and debate on the 15th insts. As we had no regular performances, Society adjourned early, and a number of our members visited the Cresson. After this Tom Roberts and I had a spirited argument which was decided in my favor by two committees.  March 2. Was at work and attended all recitations today. -- I commenced reading the 1st vol. of Hume’s History of England, which I brought from the Library today. After Chapel exercises the senior Class met in Dr. Pugh’s    91.   office to make arrangements concerning a Reading Room. A committee, consisting of Church, Miles, Banks, Bullock, and myself was appointed to draw up some plan by which it should be conducted. Committee met. I was chosen Chairman. We agreed to propose that the attending to the Reading Room be given to some responsible person, who should be required to do no other work. This proposition was accepted by the Faculty, and it was recommended by the Committee that I be selected as Clerk. Received $12.23 from J.V. Martin, Treasurer. W.A.L. S. of this $11.23 are to be sent to W.S. Haven.
92.   March 3. We had Bible Class today, and Episcopal service. This afternoon I walked out to the fields in company with a number of Students.  March 4. I did not attend recitation in Chemistry today. The Reading Room Committee met this afternoon to draft a Constitution. The Senior Class also chose officers for the Association. I was elected Janitor, to serve as all the officers do, during the session. It is my duty to receive all papers for the Room, file them, stay in the room all the time that it is open,    93.   which is three hours each day, keep it well swept and dusted, &etc. I will not be required to perform any other labor about the Institution.   I was with the Committee but a short time, as I had to learn a piece for declamation. This I did, and spoke it this evening. It brought forth some little applause, which, being prohibited by the Faculty, is seldom the case, J.V. Martin declaimed. I sent $11.23 to W.S. Haven, and paid $1 to Reading Room.   March 5. Although the Reading Room has not yet been opened, I have already left off work so that I have till
94.  9 o’clock each morning for study. The officers met this afternoon to make selections of papers for the Association. -- I commenced writing a paper for the Anonymous Box. It is entitled “The Mercurial Miscellany.” Tom Roberts brought an essay today, which he requested me to read and correct. -- On account of cold in my room I staid [sic] with Hart till bedtime.   March 6. This morning was exceedingly cold. I am of  Of course I was pleased that circumstances did not require me to go work. My room has been so uncomfortable all day that I remained in    95.  it but little. -- A majority of of [sic] the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th classes have become dissatisfied with the Reading Room Association because its government has been placed in the hands of the Seniors. They are about organizing another association  March 7th 1861. Today I superintended the scrubbing out of the Reading Room. Received a letter from Decatur. All well at home. Frontman C.E. and L.C. declaimed this evening -- As usual they did exceedingly well -----
96.   “Ought public opinion to be regarded as the standard of right.”  Negative.     97.   [Newspaper Clipping]    [Local Correspondence.]   SPRUCE CREEK. Jan 14 18601  Dear Union: -- We are about to assume the character of a local correspondent to a public journal, and of course feel ourselves obligated to shoulder the responsibilities and do our best. Should we succeed in finding favor with the Editor, we would then, presuming upon the indulgence of the public, ask it to be not more severe in its criticism than may be conducive to the respectability of our productions.   We doubt not that every one who is at all likely to peruse this communication knows something, or has heard, at least, of this busy and beautiful village -- the acknowledged metropolis of the “Upper End.” Should there be any who wish to know more definitively where it is, and what it’s like, we would not hesitate, although self-appointed, to extend them an invitation in behalf of our citizens to “come and see.”    This community has an eye of interest on the unfortunate and alarming events that are transpiring, and so rapidly following each other within the limits of our beloved country. The latest intelligence from Charleston and Washington wrung from us the concession that “the war is inevitable,” and although necessity almost compels us to say “let it come,” patriotism forbids the use of the words. We know indeed that it would come not in defense of our common country against foreign aggression. Its chief theatre would be on a spot made memorable by Sumpter, Marion, and hosts of other brave men, whose patriotism, though they were born on Southern soil, knew nothing but the whole land.  We must feel too that its most probable effect would be the further dismemberment of our glorious Union. It may be, the subjugation of the discordant elements could be easily accomplished, but this would only be destructive of the last spark of fraternal feeling that may now exist between the two great sections of our confederacy. May God avert the terrible storm that is fast gathering. But we profess to speak for the community, and we feel free to say that when the crisis comes, if come it must, while we may lament the policy that leads us to it, not a man will shrink from his duty. While we hope that evil may not overtake us, we will prepare to meet calamity. We have no local news of importance to communicate. Most of our young folks are enjoying the benefits of the snow which fell last week.   Yours,    M.S. Lytle.
