Transcript


Milton S. Lytle, Q.M.D.        1863  M.S. Lytle  Q.M. Dept  12th Army Corps  May 10th. Left Office of Chf. Q..M. 12th A.C. at Stafford C.H. Va, and rejoined Regiments in Camp near Aquia Landing.    May 11th.  Regiment took boat at Landing, 8 O’clock A.M., and reached Baltimore via Washington.    May 12th.  Slept on cars with rest of  Regh. last night. Train started soon after daylight. Arrived at Harrisburg.    May 13th.  Went home on morning train. Ret’d to C.H. tonight.
May 18th.  Mustered out of service and paid. Regiment left for home on train at 10 P.M.   May 19th  Went home.    June 1st.  Started on return trip to Hd. Quarters 12th A.C. Came as far as Huntingdon. Had a good time with S_____  June 2nd.  Joined ‘Loyal Union League.’ Was sworn in at the Court House. Took train at 10 a.m. Marion came along to Harrisburg. Met Col. Higgins & St. Martin on Cars - the latter going through to Aquia. We concluded to stay here tonight, and travel together tomorrow. our [remainder of page missing].
June 3rd.  St. M. & I left Harrisburg 2 o.k. a.m. slept through to Baltimore. Arrived at Washington at 11. Visited Smithsonian Institute and other places of interest.  June 4th.  Was at Canterbury a short show last night. Left W - by boat at 7 ½ a.m. Martin stopped at Aquia. Came from there to Brooks Station by Cars. Hd. Qs. only half a mile distant, having been removed from Stafford C.H.
this afternoon, and encamped a short distance out.    Monday, 15th, June.  Fairfax C.H. p at 3 a.m. Moved at daylight. Rode directly here without delay. Distance 21 miles. Sun hot & roads dusty. Strong entrenchments built here since we left in January last.     Tuesday, June 16th  No movement of 12th A.C. today. Amount of baggage to be carried reduced by order of Gen. Hooker. News received of the invasion of Penna. by the Rebels. They have occupied Chambersburg, The Militia is called out for State defense.   Wednesday, June 17th  Troops moved at 4 a.m. Hd. Qs. started at 7. Encamped tonight on road between Fairfax and Leesburg.  Thursday, June 18th  Reached Leesburg. Hd. Qs. at Loudon Hotel. Goose Creek was forded by the troops. A heavy hail and rain storm prevailed while crossing. Reb Cavalry in this place yesterday.
Friday June 19th  Nothing to do but look around town. It is a real “Secesh” place. No business going on. Three deserters from our Corps were shot today, back of town.   Saturday June 20.  Cloudy and some rain. No movement of 12th Corps. Very little to do at Hd. Qs. One of the bands serenaded Gen. S. tonight.   Sunday June 21st.  Attended Episcopal service at 11 a.m. Many officers and soldiers present. The discourse was pleasing, containing something to benefit both Yankee and Rebel. Cannonading today west of us. Doc & I took a ride through town and into the suburbs this evening.   Thursday 25th.  Since the 21st nothing unusual has transpired here. The Rebels have invaded Md. & Pa. in force. We move at 6 O’clock tomorrow morning.  Tuesday 30th.  Littlestown, Pa. 12th Corps moved from Leesburg on the 26th. Trains started at
3 a.m. troops at 4.30 & Hd.Qs at 8. We had a gray, dreary, muddy morning. The weather has since been favorable, the frequent shower being more pleasant than the heat and dust we had before. Crossed the Potomac at Edward’s Ferry, three miles from L. Met Gn. Hooker & Staff on Maryland side of river. Went via Pollesville to Monocacy creek and encamped for the night.   On Saturday 27th arrived at Knoxville via Point of Rocks. Between these places the troops took a route some distance from the river. General came up the tow-path. Rebel pickets were near the other side of the river, we had a rapid gallop to get out of danger.  Sunday, 28th  Started across state of Maryland. On the road heard of the removal of Hooker and appointment of Gen. Meade to Command of Army of Potomac. Gen. Slocum expressed very great satisfaction. Reached
Found the people accommodating in most places. Victuals and cherries plenty.     Wednesday, 1st.  At “Two Taverns.” The troops encamped here at noon. Hd.Qs. at a house in the village. News brought in of fighting at Gettysburg. 12th Corps moved forward, and Gen. Slocum went to the front. The 1st & 11th Corps are engaged. Gen. Reynolds Com'dg former, killed. They had advanced beyond the town, but were unable to hold their position, and fell back to the heights on this side.   Thursday 2nd.  Rode to the front this morning and took a view of
our position. Our forces are strongly posted on the heights overlooking Gettysburg. The 11th Corps holds the pike leading into town from Littlestown, having a stone fence in their front and a battery in the Cemetery. The 12th Corps moved into position on the right of the 11th at 11 O’clock a.m. The 2nd and 3rd Corps were in line, and the 5th and 6th arrived at 2 p.m. which brought the whole Army of the Potomac together. Rebel Sharp shooters are in town. HD.Qr. train went back to Taneytown. I followed this evening. There was a hard fight after 4 p.m. which I did not see.   Friday 3rd  Near Gettysburg. Returned from T - this morning. Stopped to see a battery shell the Rebels on our right. A house in which they had taken refuge was knocked to pieces. At the same time the 12th Corps was hotly engaged in the woods, but half a mile off. This infantry fighting commenced at 4 a.m. and lasted till 11, just 7 hours. The Rebels
fled. After this all was quiet for several hours. But this silence foreboded a storm. Feeling secure at the time I took a nap in the woods. At 15 mins after 1, I was aroused by the opening of an attack from the Rebs. The cannonading for two hours was terrific, exceeding Chancellorsville in rapidity. The shells did fearful execution. Our batteries replied with equal precision. The object of the enemy was to break our line, and for this purpose their infantry made a desperate charge after the artillery had ceased firing.  This attack was repulsed at all points, and many prisoners captured. The fighting ended for the day. Went up to the heights this evening and looked into town. The whistle of a bullet from a Reb Sharp shooter caused me to retire.   Saturday, July 4th  Silence prevails today. The face of every soldier wears a joyful expression. Our success yesterday was decided. Gettysburg
is in our possession. Went through the town this morning. No fighting. The Rebs do not show themselves. Our forces are feeling for them. Hd Qs. near the turn-pike, one mile from the front. Raining this evening.  Sunday, 5th.  At Littlestown, Pa. Left Camp on battlefield about 11 a.m. Hd.Qr. teams moved in advance to Two Taverns where we took dinner. Troops of 12th Corps passed us there. I came on with them. They passed through this place at dark making a splendid appearance. The whole Army is again in motion. The Rebels evacuated their position at Gettysburg on the 4th.  Monday 6th.  The Corps is still in Camp here. It was out today in the direction of the late battle ground, but found no enemy, and returned this evening.  Tuesday 7th.  Marched from L to Walkersville Ma. a distance of 25 miles. Roads not very good and some rain
falling. Took supper with Rev. Prop. & the Sergeant at a farm house. Raining heavily tonight. Will take shelter in a large barn near by.   Wednesday 8th.  Camped at Jefferson. Left Hd. Qs (5 miles from Frederick) about 7 a.m. Rain falling in torrents, and roads full of water, though on the pike we find solid bottom. Trains of several corps on the road, in some places passing in their columns. Much difficulty in getting through the streets of Frederick. Found Corps supply train at the edge of the City, on Middletown road. Stopped there with Col. Hopkins. The troops had taken some road, but returned and took road to this place. The train followed at 5 p.m. Near the wagon park at T - a spy was suspended from the limb of a tree. He had been hanging three days. This evening is clear and pleasant, differing very greatly from the morning. The most cheering news
comes from all quarters. Our Cavalry is harassing the rear of Lee’s Army and taking many prisoners. Vicksburg surrendered on the 4th of July, and Bragg is retreating before the Army of Rosecrans in Tennessee.    Thursday 9th  From Jefferson to Rohrersville. Rode with train to Burketteville [Burkittsville], where it parked. Col. H. came on to Hd. Qs. Remained behind to attend to business, then followed. Have a beautiful camp here.     Friday, 10th.  The Corps moved early. Hd. Qr. train remained. Our Office is still here & Col. H. desired me to stay. 2nd Corps passed soon after the 12th had started -. also Kenly’s [Skelly’s?] Maryland Brigade. Lee’s Army cannot cross the river. Meade is pressing on and a great battle is daily expected. There was some cannonading today. Made out Monthly Transportation Report.  Saturday 11th.  Col. H. went to front. I remained. Wrote to Annie
Sunday 12th.  Orders received in forenoon to remove officer to Hd. Qs. Went via Keedysville & Bakersville. Visited Antietam battlefield. Rode down turnpike from cross roads to little brick church.     Monday 13th,  Went to Frederick City to deposit check in bank and draw money on it. Distance 20 miles. Retd. as far as Middletown.     Tuesday 14th,  Returned to Hd. Qs at Tillmanton via Boonesboro.     [the entry below  was written sideways on page 25. The preceding passage was written over this entry]  Mst. Lt. Geo. Wetmore  14th Pa. Cavalry  on road near Boonesboro - Md.    Gen. Meade advanced his forces this morning to make an attack, but no enemy was found. The Rebs have succeeded in crossing the river, their rear passed over last night. Thus ended their campaign north of the Potomac. They fled ingloriously.    Wednesday 15th  From Tillmanton to Sandy Hook, via Antietam and Sharpsburg. Hd. Qs. on road to Knoxville, one mile from Sandy Hook.
Thursday, 16th.  Moved Hd. Qs. this morning from one side of the road to the other. News received of the surrender of Port Hudson to Gen. Banks on the 5th.  Got a letter from Decatur written at Harrisburg on the 13th - John is in the service with a three months militia regiment. Wrote to Decatur and Lizzie tonight.  Friday, 17th.  Rained nearly all day. Quite cool. The Gen. & staff have a fire in front of their tents. Rode to St. Steiner’s train for Q.M. blanks. Returned via Second Crops. Did not see St. Troutman. The a.a.G.’s appear to have plenty of business on hand. Q.M.D. not pressed.  Troops are crossing the river today at Berlin.   Saturday 18th.  Clouds cleared away this morning. Day pleasant. Had a little work to do in Office. Second Corps moved, and several others are also over the river.
Sunday, 19th.  Orders received last night to be ready to move early. Started about 10 a.m. Crossed Potomac at Harper’s Ferry on pontoon bridge. Took Loudon Valley road. Encamped one and a half miles from Hillsboro. Was out foraging this evening, Squads of men are out over the country seizing horses, forage, and whatever is of value to the Army.   Monday 20th.  At Snickersville, Va. Left the Leesburg road about a mile above Hillsboro. When five miles from this place the Corps halted several hours for the train of the 2nd Corps to pass. Went into Camp here an hour before dark.   Tuesday 21st  No movement of Twelfth Corps. Went down to Supply Train this afternoon. Learned to play “solitaire.”   Wednesday 22nd.  In status quo. Had office tents put up, put my desk in order for business but have little to do.
Thursday, 23.  Markham in Manassas Gap. The troops of 12th Corps commenced moving about daylight. Hd. Qs. started an hour later. Left the turnpike to the right one mile from Snickersville. Came via Uniontown Upperville, and Paris (Ashby’s Gap). Arrived at P. at 1 O’clock. Waited for Wagons. Took dinner and started again at 4 p.m. Had a steady march to this place, getting here at 9. Distance traveled 20 miles. Horses tired. Can judge how the men feel.  The 2nd, 3rd, & 5th Corps are in the Gap. There are prospects of a fight tomorrow. The Rebels (Longstreet's Corps) are reported to be between the mountain and river.  Friday 24th.  Near Rectortown - This morning Geary’s Division went up the Gap. Genl. Slocum followed soon after breakfast. We came up to the head of the column about three miles from Markham, a halt was ordered. The forces in the front advanced but found no enemy. At
1 O’clock p.m. returned to Markham. Had dinner at Hd. Qs. - 3 ½ p.m. left the Gap. We are at a farm house tonight.    Saturday 25th  At Haymarket. Were at White Plains for dinner. From Manassas Gap we have kept the line of railroad to this place, Blackberries are plenty, more than the army wants to eat. This village was destroyed last fall by some Union troops. Nothing remains but the blackened chimneys -----------------------------------     Sunday 26th.  1 mile from Warrenton Junction. Came via Greenwich & Catletts station. Traveled today ahead of troops and Hd. Qs. Had a good dinner at a farm house. Waited there nearly two hours for the Corps to come up - the cars are running constantly here bringing supplies.    Made forage reports and wrote orders to Q.M’s  tonight.  Monday, 27th.  In camp. Received a
mail, the first we have had for over a week -- Rained some today -- and a shower tonight.   Tuesday 28th.  No movement of corps. Was over to Lt. Steiner's this morning, and this afternoon again. Have been making out some of our monthly reports, and attending to other business. Several train loads of pontoon boats passed today from Washington - a warm day. Had thunder and lighting with strong wind before dark. Raining tonight.    Wednesday 29th.  In camp - The army is receiving supplies of fresh provisions and new clothing. In our office business not unusually brisk. Day pleasant.  Thursday 30th.  In Washington D.C. LEft Warrenton Junction on train at 5 p.m.. Arrived at 9. Stop at Arenu House.  Friday, 31st.  Business here is to get cash ($3214.83) on check, have Col. H’s rolls for June & July cashed, and get pay for clerks at Hd. Qs. Was at Treasury Dept.
at 9 a.m. when it opened. Had to get a witness to Col. H’s signature on check, Maj. Jones gave me draft for Col’s pay. Made purchases this afternoon, At theatre tonight.  Saturday, [August] 1st.  At Warrenton Junction, Maj. Rodgers gave me draft for clerk’s money. Took the three then in my possession to Treasury & had them cashed. Met Martin, went with him to Markham’s, left Washington at 2 p.m. Laid over two hours at Alexandria, got here at dark. The Corps has moved since I went away.  Sunday, 2nd.  Near Kelly’s Ford, on the Rappahannock. Came to the Station on train early this morning. Sent an Orderly out to hunt Head Quarters. He brought back an ambulance from Col. H to for myself and stores. Reached here at 1 p.m. At R. Station saw Genl. Buford & Staff. Their Division (Cavalry) had a fight yesterday near Culpepper. They claim a victory.   Weather for two days intensely hot.
Monday 3rd.  Moved Head Quarters. Are now about two miles from Kelly’s Ford on road to Bealton Station. The day being very hot, we did not commence to move till 7 p.m. Had tents pitched by 10. Our camp was so near the river that there was danger of having our heads knocked off by the Rebels some morning before daylight ---------------  Tuesday 4th.  Made some changes in camp this morning. A fine shower this afternoon and evening. Cannonading towards Kelley’s Ford, which could hardly be distinguished from thunder during part of the time.   Wednesday 5th.  Nothing transpiring of importance. Pleasant day. Had some work in Office tonight. Enclosed to Father   Four 10’s -- U.S. Treasury Notes -- $40.  Two 20s --           --    40   $80  Thursday 6th.  Nothing to do but write a few orders and make reports. Two hours work per day.
Friday 7th -- A shower tonight - Rain comes through our tent. A telegraph Office was established at these Hd.Qs. a few days ago. This gives us communication with all points. -----------------------  Saturday 8th  Reported that part of the Army is crossing the Rappahannock today. No other indication of a move of the 12th Corps. The 2nd Division is at Ellis’ Ford. Mail came after dark. Delay was caused by the destruction of a part of the O & Alex R.R. [Lytle is referring to the Orange and Alexandria Railroad] by Guerrillas. Warm. ----------  Sunday 9th    Sunday, 16th.  A movement  of our forces is on foot. No telling what object is in view. Fourteen reg’s of our Corps are ordered to Alexandria. Gen. Meade was at Washington several days last week, during which time Gen. Slocum had command of the army.     Tuesday 18th.  Letter to Philadelphia Inquirer on the coming political campaign in that state.
Wednesday 19th.  Rec’d letter from Decatur, written at Spruce Creek on the 17. The Draft was to be made in H.C. on that day - Makes proposition in case M. is drafted.   Thursday 20th.   Another letter from Decatur, Marion was drawn in the lottery for the honor of carrying a musket or paying $300. He will do the latter.    Sent letter to “Inquirer” concerning certain articles in N.Y. Herald in regard to the material which is to compose next House of Representatives. Col. Hopkins brought for me from W-- Draper’s “Intellectual Development of Europe.” Commenced reading it -- While he was away read “Journal of a Life on a Georgian Plantation” by Mrs. F.A. Kemble.     Saturday August 29th-  Still in Camp near Kelly’s Ford.    August 31st.  Rode to Genl. Geary’s Head Qs. to see Capt. Parker, A.Q.M, Transportation of Corps inspected by Gen. Meigs, Q.M. Genl.
Clerk’s Mess  E. Clarke A.A.G.O.  E. Allen ``  P. Cary ``  C. Rea. A.I.[?]G.O  S.K. Whittemore Med. Div  H.P. Morley Aff of Chf. O.S.  J.D. Holmes P.M.  J.C. Mayer Mail Ag’t   Tel. Optor  M.S.L. Off. of Chf. Q.M.    [The following entry is written upside down in the diary]  and continued till after dark. No news from the front. Moonlight.  May 2nd.  Fighting was recommenced this afternoon. Heavy firing in evening and at 10 p.m.  May 3rd.  (Sunday)  The battle raged furiously from 6 till 11 a.m No advantage gained on either side. Rode to the front this afternoon. St. Crosby of Bat. “K” is killed.  May 4th -- Rebs ran a battery down to river and waked us up on this side by a shower of shell. Caused some confusion in Camp.  May 5th.  Our Army feel back from Chancellorsville, crossed river at U.S. Ford
E Pluribus Unum,  An American National Song    Though many and bright are the stars that appear,  In that Flag by our country unfurled;  And the stripes that are swelling in majesty there,  Like a rainbow adorning the world:  Their lights are unsullied as those in the sky  By a deed that our Fathers have done;  And they’re engaged in as one and as holy a tie,  In their motto of “Many in One.”    From the hour when those patriots fearlessly flung’   That banner of starlight abroad;  Ever true to themselves, to that motto they clung,  As they clung to the promise of God;  On the fields where our glory was one;  Oh! perish the heart or the hand that would mar,  Our motto of “Many in One.”    ‘Mid the smoke of the contest - the cannon’s deep roar  How oft hath it gathered renown!  While those stars were reflected in rivers of gore,  When the cross and the lion went down;  And though few were the lights in the gloom of that hour,  Yet the hearts that were striking below,  Had God for their bulwark and truth for their power,  And they stopped not to number the foe.    From where our green mountain tops blend with the sky  And the giant St. Lawrence is rolled,  To the waves where the balmy Hesperides lie,  Like the dream of some prophet of old;  They conquer’d - and dying bequeathed to our care-  Not this boundless dominion alone0  But that Banner, whose lovliness[sic] hallows the air,  And their motto of “Many in One.”    We are “Many in One,” while there glitters a star  In the blue of the heavens above;  And tyrants shall quail ‘mid their dungeons afar,  When they gaze on that motto of love,  IT shall gleam o’er the sa, ‘mid the bolts of the storm,  Over tempest, and battle, and wreck;  And flame where our guns with their thunder grew warm,  ‘Neath the blood on the slippery deck.    The oppressed of the earth to that standard shall fly,  Wherever its folds shall be spread;   And the exile shall feel that ‘tis his own native sky,  When its stars shall float o’er his head,  And those stars shall increase till the fullness of time,  Its million of cycles has run --  Till the world shall have welcomed its mission sublime,  And the nations of earth shall be one    Though the old Alleghany may tower to heaven,  And the Father of waters divide;  The links of our destiny cannot be riven  While the truth of these worlds shall abide.  Then oh! let them flow on each helmet and brand,  Though our blood like our rivers shall run;  Divide as we may in our own native land,  To the rest of the world we are one.    Then up with our flag, let it stream on the air,  Though our fathers are cold in their graves;  They had hands that could strike they had souls that could dare,  And their sons were not born to be slaves.  Up, up with that banner, where’er it may call,  Our millions shall rally around;  A nation of freemen that moment shall fall,  When its stars shall be trail’d on the ground.    Our Returning Soldiers    When wild war’s deadly blast was blawn,  And gentle peace returning,  Wi’ mony a sweet babe fatherless,  Wi’ mony a widow morning,  I left the lines and tented field,  Where lang I’d been a lodger,  My humble knapsack a’ my wealth,  A poor and honest sodger.     A leal light heart was in my breast,  My hand unstained with plunder,  And for fair Scotia’s hame again  I cheery on did wander.  I thought upon the banks o’ Coil,  I thought upon my Nancy,  I thought upon the witching smile  That caught my witching fancy.    At length I reached the connie glen  Where early life I sported;  I passed the mill and trysting thorn,  Where Nancy aft I courted;  Who spied I but my ain dear maid,  Down by my mother’s dwelling!  And turned me round to hide the flood  That from my e’en was swelling.    Wi’ altered voice, youth I, sweet lass, --   Sweet as yon hawthorn’s blossom, --  O! happy, happy may he be  That’s dearest to thy bosom!  My purse is light, I’ve far to gang,  And fain would by thy lodger;  I’ve served my King and Country lang,  Take pity on a sodger.    Sae wistfully she gazed on me,  And lovelier was than ever;  Quo’ she, A sodger ance I lo’ed,  Forget him shall I never;  Our humble cot and hamely fare,  Ye freely shall partake it,  That galland badge, the dear cockade,  Ye’re welcome for the sake o’t.    She gazed -- she reddened like a rose --   Syne pale like ony lily;  She sank within my arms and cried,  Art thou my own dear Willie?  By him who made yon sun and sky, --  By him who true love’s regarded, --  I am the man; and thus may still  True lovers be rewarded.    The wars are o’er and I’m come hame,  And find thee still true hearted;  Though poor in gear, we’re rich in love,  And mair we’se ne’er been parted.  Quo’ she; my grandsire left me gowd,  A maiden plenished fairly;  And come, my faithful sodger lad,  Thou’rt welcome to it dearly.    For gold the merchant plows the main  The farmer plows the manor;  But glory is the sodger’s prize,  The sodger’s wealth is honor;  The prave poor sodger ne’er despise
  Sent.  To Decatur July 16th  Mrs. E.S.L “ 16th  Alena “ 19  Annie “ 22  “ “ 26  Mother “ 29  Father “ 31  Marion Aug 2nd  Father  “ 5th    [The passages on the remainder of this page and the next page are entered upside down]   Stafford C. H. Va.  April 10th.  The 11th & 12th Corps were received by President Lincoln. Gen. Hooker was here.    works are being thrown up by our men on this side under the mouths of Rebel cannon. The Second Corps (Gen. Couch) passed this afternoon moving towards U.S. Ford. Twenty five pontoons have also gone up.  April 30th.  Battery “F” moved at 1 O’clock last night. Raining at the time. Balloon reconnaissances are being made here today.  May 1st -- At United State, Ford. Train moved at 1 a.m. Was at the river and saw 3rd Corps cross. Cannonading commenced early in afternoon.
1863, April 27th -- Corps moved at sunrise. Train did not start till afternoon. I moved with it. Parked this evening on Accokeek Creek, three miles from Stafford --  April 28th -- Near Hartwood Church. Troops are 15th miles in advance. Col. H. and I are stopping with Liet. Crosby, Battery “F.” 4th U.S. Artillery.  April 29th.  One mile from Banks Ford of the Rappahannock. Arrived at 10 a.m. Went to river. Rebel pickets on other side. Fortifications and a camp visible on a hill. Earth-    Milston S. Lytle  Office of Chf. Q.M.  12th A. Corps
[28 - back cover]
HIGHER RANK IN THE ARMY AND NAVY    The old Congress, with a proud anticipation of the future growth and power of the United STates, passed a resolution, November 15, 1776, in these words:  “That the rank of naval officers be to the rank of officers in the land service, as follows: Admiral as a General; Vice Admiral as a Lieutenant General; Rear Admiral as Major General; Commodore as a Brigadier General; Captain of a ship of 40 guns and upwards as a Colonel; Captain of a ship of 20 to 40 guns as a Major; Lieutenant in the navy as a Captain.” -- [Journals of Congress, vol. 1, p. 549.]  Congress had before (June 15, 1775) “resolved that a general be appointed to command all the continental forces raised, or to be raised, for the defence of American liberty.” - [Journals of Congress, vol. 1, p. 83]  And on the 19th of the same month Hancock, President of Congress, signed WAshington’s commission, in which he is styled “general and commander-in-chief of,” &c. -- [Spark’s Life and Writings of Washington, vol. 3 p. 482.]  Those resolutions show that Congress, in which there were many members who had served in or with the British forces, well understood the difference between grades of rank both in the army and navy.  An invasion of the United States by the French Directory being apprehended, Congress, May 28, 1798, enacted -   “Sec. 5. And it be, &c. That, whenever the President shall deem it expedient, he is hereby empowered to appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a commander of the army which may be raised by virtue of this act, and who, being commissioned as lieutenant general, may be authorized to command the armies of the United States, and shall be entitled,” &c. -- [Hetzel’s Mil. Laws, p. 73]  Thus ex-President Washington was restored to the higher rank he had borne throughout the revolutionary war; and thus it is seen that Congress, November 15, 1776, in the foregoing table of relative rank, and again May 28, 1798, recognised the rank of lieutenant general. That grade was abolished in 1799 (as above) to relieve President Adams from the necessity, which would otherwise have existed, of promoting the next in rank (Hamilton) to the lieutenant generalcy. The quarrel between Adams and Hamilton had then commenced.   The title or grade of lieutenant general is also well known to the codes of several of our States, as in Connecticut, where we have, under the head of general staff, his excellency T. H. Seymour, captain general, his honor C. H. Pond lieutenant general.  Illinois, also, has had a volunteer organization called a legion, commanded by a lieutenant general, supported by two major generals, &c.  Thus it is shown that the rank of lieutenant general (between General Washington’s rank and major general) is old among us, and not a novelty, as many suppose; and that we have had in our army and militia every grade of rank, except field marshal, known to European armies, in which captain general i the highest.   In the same act, March 3, 1799, (quoted above,) it is declared --  “Sec. 8. And be it, &c. That in the ordinary arrangement of the army two regiments of infantry or cavalry shall constitute a brigade, and shall be commanded by a brigadier general; two brigades a division, and shall be commanded by a major general.” -- [Hetzel’s Military Laws, p. 92]  Following out this scale (and there is no other enactment of Congress on the subject) the general regulations for the army (approved by Mr. Secretary Calhoun, in the name of President Monroe, March 1, 1825) and the infantry tactics (approved by Mr. Secretary Cass, in the name of President JAckson, April 10, 1835) make two divisions constitute an army corps, or corps d’armee, a
[words cut off]  by individuals of war steamships, which might, on the emergency of a war, be ready for public use; and such being its design, and the carrying of the mails but an incidental purpose, the public treasury should bear the cost. The amount of postage derived from these vessels is but small, as has been shown; and in view of the extension of mail accommodation asked for from every part of the country, which has now to be frequently denied, I would suggest that these lines be now paid for the manner now provided for in relation to the other lines. The extending settlements of our country, and the great increase and activity of business of every description, require all the mial accommodation that can be given, and the Department should not be burdened with payment for services which do not properly belong to it.    No material change has been made in our postal convention with Great Britain since the date of the last annual report from the Postmaster General.   An arrangement has been made with Great Britain by which the United States avails itself of the facilities of communication secured by existing postal treaties between Great Britain and the several Governments on the west coast of South America, the mails being transported by a line of British steam-packets plying between Panama and Valdivia, touching at the prominent intermediate ports.   The rate of postage on magazines has been reduced to one cent an ounce to all foreign countries, except Great Britain.   No reduction has as yet been made in the high transit postage charged on the mails passing through England to and from the United States. Whilst the British Government has been paying the United States 12 ½ cents an ounce for the transit of the British and Canadian closed mails between Canada, New York, and Boston, it has been receiving 24 cents an ounce for the transit of the French mails through England, and the effect has been greatly to inconvenience correspondents both in the United States and France. The whole subject has been presented in its proper light to our Minister at London.   The negotiations for a postal convention between the United States and France are still in progress, and, except in regard to two or three important points of difference, the basis of an arrangement has been made. The pending postal convention between the United States and Belgium awaits only the reduction of the British transit rate and one or two modifications before being finally concluded and put in operation.   Our postal arrangement with Prussia seems to operate favorably, but a few of the States in Southern Germany have not yet fully acceded to its terms, and have therefore sent much of their correspondence for the United States through France.   The rate of postage between our country and Bremen has been reduced from twenty to ten cents per single letter. By the present postal arrangements, the Bremen Government putting on two steamers to run monthly, in connexion with the United States steamers Washington and Hermann, between New York and Bremen, provision is made for a due division of the postage accruing from the two lines, and the commission to the postmaster of Bremen is discontinued.   The States of Southern Germany will be admitted to a participation in the advantages of the postal arrangement with Prussia upon equitable terms.    The contract conditionally entered into by his predecessor for the conveyance of a mail to California via Vera Cruz and Acapulco has been disapproved by the present Postmaster General, and nothing further has been heard from the company. It is stated that the Nicaragua Company propose to carry a semi-monthly mail between San Francisco and New ork for $300,000 per annum. It is suggested that if Congress intends to withdraw from the Collins line the appropriation which they now receive, the Postmaster General might be authorized to pay to every steamer running between the United States and
England a fixed sum for each trip, the trips not to exceed a given number each week, and thus throw the carriage of the mails open to individual competition.   The Postmaster General, following in the footsteps of several of his predecessors, strongly recommends the extension of the public building occupied by the Post Office Department. He says that the reasons heretofore urged in favor of this measure are every year acquiring additional force. The increasing business of the Department, the limited accommodations for the clerks in the different Bureaus and the Auditor’s office, and the want of room for important papers, which have now to be placed in the [h]alls and cellars, subject to be destroyed by fire or mildew, require the original design to be completed.   In conclusion, the Report alludes to the experience in [fi]nding suitable rooms, especially for distributing post offices in our larger cities, and suggests, as a measure of economy, that Congress appropriate money to enable the Department to buy or erect suitable places for post offices in the larger cities of the Union.          UNITED STATES MAIL  ___      PENNSYLVANIA  POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, DEC. 15, 1853     PROPOSALS for conveying the Mails of the United States from the 1st of February, 1854, to the 30th June, 1856, [via] the following route in Pennsylvania, will be received [to] the Contract Office of the Post Office Department until 9 [o’] clock A.M. of Monday, the 16th day of January, 1854, to [b]e decided on the same day:  [p]o. 9496 From Curwensville, by Luthersburg, Reynoldsville, Brookville, Corsica, Strattonsville, Clarion, Shippensville, Kossuck, Cass, Cranberry, Franklin, Canal, and Cohranton, to Meadville, 106 miles and back, six times a week.   Leave Curwinsville daily, except Sunday, at 7 am; Arrive at Meadville next days by 6 pm  Leave Meadville daily, except Sunday, at 7 am;   Arrive at Curwinsville next day by 6 pm.  For form of bid, guaranty, and certificate, also for instructions and requirements, (embracing the conditions to be incorporated in the contract to such extent as the Department may deem expedient,) see advertisement inviting Proposals for Mail service in the States of NEw Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and Ohio, dated the 22nd September, 1851.   JAMES CAMPBELL  dec 17- 3taw4w Postmaster General         A SCENE AT THE ASTOR HOUSE, New York,   during the lifetime of Daniel Webster.  “Good morning, Mr. G. P. Fox; I am glad to see you. Did you receive my letter?” “Yes, Secretary Webster; and with pleasure wait upon you with samples of different texture of colored cloths to make you another K’haban overcoat, as requested.”  The great Daniel came to judgement, without delay or hesitation replied, I will select this color for my K’haban. Make the coat to same measure as last, and have the garment ready by the time I return here from Marshfield. The inventor of [th]e K’haban, true to appointment, again waited upon the Defender of the Constitution.” How do you do Mr. G. P. [F]ox? I am well I thank you, sir; but am exceedingly sorry [to] notice your lameness from the effects of the accident that [be]fel  you at Marshfield. You are very kind, Mr. Fox. I trust [so]on to get better. Do you wish me to try on the new K’ha[ba]n coat that you have brought? I do, sir, if it is not trou[bl]esome to your lame arm. O no, not at all; the K’haban is [th]e only coat that does not pain me, either in taking off or [pu]tting on. Ah, now the new coat is on I feel this K’haban [to] be just what I wanted, perfect fit, and am much pleased. ]I] owe you many thanks, Mr. Fox. The leader of fashions [wo]uld see at one glance that the great Daniel Webster was no [lo]nger his usual figure, and referred the invalid statesman to [the] parlor mirror, at the same time suggesting to make some [alt]erations and improvements. Mr. Webster replied, the [fi]ting is good enough for me, I am only an old man. One [re]sponse from ‘the Fox’ reversed the decision. My reputation, sir, is at stake. Yes, yes, Mr. Fox, I forgot; alter the [h]at, do as you please, and send the K’haban when finished to [W]ashington. G.P. Fox took an eye-sight measure of the [t]attered frame and altered form of the illustrious statesman, [a]nd returned to his store, 333 Broadway, New York, and cut [a]nd delivered another K’haban from exactly the same mate[r]ials, the receipt of which was acknowledged by an autograph [le]tter that caused the K’haban to be immortalized as the stan[d]ard American coat, never, never to be thrown out of fashion [u]ntil time has had an end and all thing searthly passed away.     JUST RECEIVED, per schooner Washington, from New York -   [page cut off]
command for a lieutenant general.   The army of the United States now consists of fifteen regiments, two corps of engineers, and the ordnance department - more than equal to four divisions or two army corps; that is, equal to commands for two lieutenant generals.    IN SENATE  February 24, 1849, Hon. Mr. FITZGERALD “asked and obtained leave to bring in a joint resolution to confer upon Major General Winfield Scott the brevet rank of lieutenant-general; which was read and passed to a second reading.”   A motion to read the resolution a third time the same day being objected to by a single Senator, the subject went over for the want of time, Congress being within a week of dissolution.   July 29, 1850, Hon. Mr. CLEMENS submitted the following:   “Resolved, That the Committee on Military Affairs be instructed to inquire into the expediency of conferring by law the brevet rank of lieutenant general on Major General Winfield Scott, with such additional pay and allowances as may be deemed proper, in consideration of the distinguished services rendered to the republic by that officer during the late war with Mexico.”   Eight days later that resolution was referred to the Senate’s Military Committee   On the last day of the session (September 30, 1850) Hon. JEFFERSON DAVIS, chairman, reported the following resolution on the same subject:    “Resolved, That the President of the United States be and he is hereby requested to refer to an army board of officers, to be designated by him, the following questions, viz:   “Is it expedient or necessary to provide for additional grades of commissioned officers in the army of the United States? and, if so, what grades, in addition to the present organization, should be created?”   In pursuance of this request the President of the United States appointed a board of officers -- Generals Jesup, (president,) Wool, Gibson, Totten, Talcott, Hitchcock, and Colonel Crane - who reported unanimously, in response to Mssrs. Clemens and Davis, as follows:   “Under the first inquiry referred to it the board is of opinion that is is expedient to create by law for the army the additional grade of lieutenant-general, and that when, in the opinion of the President and Senate, it shall be deemed proper to acknowledge eminent services of officers of the army , and in the mode already provided for in subordinate grades, it is expedient and proper that the grade of lieutenant-general may be conferred by brevet.”   December 17, 1850, that report was laid before the Senate, and referred to the Committee on Military Affairs,” &c.    January 25, 1851, Hon. Mr. SHIELDS reported a joint resolution in conformity with the recommendations of the Military Board.   February 13, 1851, the joint resolution passed the Senate by 31 votes to 16, several of its friends (among them the Hon. Mr. CLEMENS) being absent.    HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES  March 3, 1851, an attempt was made by the Hon. A. H. STEPHENS to call up, out of turn, the joint resolution (about the ninetieth of the bills, &c. on the Speaker’s table,) when the yeas were 112 to 72 nays; several of the friends of the measure -- among them the Hon. Mr. TOOMBS, with a like result. A change of some eight or ten votes were have made a two-thirds majority.    IN SENATE.   December 8, 1851, Hon. Mr. CLEMENS asked and obtained leave to bring in a joint resolution “authorizing the President of the United States to confer the title of lieutenant-general by brevet for eminent services; which was read the first and second time by unanimous consent, and referred to the Committee on Military Affairs.” (This joint resolution is similar to the one on the same subject passed by the Senate at the preceding session.)    December 23, 1851, the joint resolution was reported back to the Senate without amendment, and slept the remainder of the session.   December 7, 1852, (the second day of the new session,) Hon. Mr. CLEMENS again brought up the same resolution in the Senate, and it passed that body on the 21st, by a vote of 34 to 12.   The excitement caused by an incoming Administration naturally overrode and sunk the resolution in the House of Representatives at that session.  DECEMBER, 1853
Gen. Butler’s Address to the PEople of New-Orleans.   The following farewell address of Gen. Butler to the people of New-Orleans was, on the evening the 23rd ult., placed in the hands of Capt. John Clark, with the request that it be issued in The Delta after the departure of the Spaulding. We are indebted to Col. E. M. Brown for an advanced copy of this last performance of the retiring Major- General:   CITIZENS OF NEW ORLEANS: It may not be inappropriate, as it is not inopportune in occasion, that there should be addressed to you a few words at parting, by one whose name is to be hereafter indissolubly connected with your city.   I shall speak in no bitterness, because I am not conscious of a single personal animosity. Commanding the Army of the Gulf, I found you captured, but not surrendered; conquered, but not orderly; relieved from the presence of an army, but incapable of taking care of yourselves. So far from it, you had called upon a foreign legion to protect you from yourselves. I restored order, punished crime, opened commerce, brought provisions to your starving people, reformed your currency, and gave you quiet protection, such as you had not enjoyed for many years.   While doing this, my soldiers were subjected to obloquy, reproach, and insult.   And now, speaking to you, who know the truth, I here declare, that whoever has quietly remained about his business, affording neither aid nor comfort to the enemies of the United States, has never been interfered with by the soldiers of the United States.   The men who had assumed to govern you and to defend your city in arms having fled, some of your women flouted at the presence of those who came to protect them. By a simple order (No. 28), I called upon every soldier of this army to treat the women of New Orleans as gentlemen should deal with the sex, with such effect that I now call upon the just-minded ladies of New-Orleans to say whether they have ever enjoyed so complete protection and calm quiet for themselves and their families, as since the advent of the United States troops.   The enemies of my country, unrepentant and implacable, I have treated with merited severity. I hold that rebellion is treason, and that treason persisted in his death, and any punishment short of that due a traitor give so much clear gain to him from the clemency of the Government. Upon this thesis have I administered the authority of the United States, because of which I am not unconscious of complaint. I do not feel that I have erred in too much harshness, for that harshness has ever been exhibited to disloyal enemies to my country and not to loyal friends. To be sure, I might have regaled you with the amenities of British civilization, and yet been within the supposed rules of civilized warfare. You might have been smoked to death in caverns, as were the Covenanters of Scotland by the command of a General of the Royal House of England; or roasted like the inhabitants of Algiers during the French campaign; your wives and daughters might have been given over to the ravisher as were the unfortunate dames of Spain in the Peninsular war; or you might have been scalped and tomahawked as our mothers were at Wyoming by the savage allies of Great Britain in our own revolution; your property could have been turned over to indiscriminate ‘loot’ like the palace of the Emperor of China; works of art which adorned your buildings might have been sent away like the paintings of the Vatican; your sons might have been blown from the mouths of cannon like the Sepoys at Delhi; and yet all this would have been within the rules of civilized warfare as practiced by the most polished and the most hypocritical nations of Europe. For such acts the records of the doings of some of the inhabitants of your city toward the friends of the Union, before my coming, were a sufficient provocative and justification.  But I have not so conducted. On the contrary, the worst punishment inflicted, except for criminal acts punishable by every law, has been banishment with labor to a barren island, where I encamped my own soldiers before marching here.  It is true I have levied upon the wealthy rebels and paid out nearly half a million of dollars to feed 40,000 of the starving poor of all nations assembled here, made so by this war.   I saw that this Rebellion was a war of the aristocrats against the middling men; of the rich against the poor; a war of the landowner against the laborer; that it was a struggle for the retention of power in the hands of the few against the many; and I found no conclusion to it save in the subjugation of the few and the disenthrallment of the many. I therefore felt no hesitation in taking the substance of the wealthy, who had caused the war, to feed the innocent poor who had suffered by the war. And I shall now leave you with the proud consciousness that I carry with me the blessings of the humble and loyal under the roof of the cottage and in the cabin of the slave, and so am quite content to incur the sneers of the salon or the curses of the rich.  I found you trembling at the terrors of servile insurrection. All danger of this I have prevented by so treating the slave that he had no cause to rebel.  I found the dungeon, the chain, and the lash your only means of enforcing obedience in your servants. I leave them peaceful, laborious, controlled by the laws of kindness and justice.  I have demonstrated that the pestilence can be kept from your borders.  I have added a million of dollars to your wealth in the form of new land from the batture of the Mississippi.  I have cleansed and improved your streets, canals, and public squares, and opened new avenues to unoccupied land.  I have given you freedom of elections, greater than you have ever enjoyed.  I have caused justice to be administered so impartially that your own advocates have unanimously complimented the judges of my appointment.  You have seen, therefore, the benefit of the laws and justice of the Government against which you have rebelled.  Why, then, will you not all return to your allegiance to that Government - not with lip-service, but with the heart?   I conjure you, if you desire ever to see renewed prosperity, giving business to your streets and wharves -- if you hope to see your city become again the mart of the Western World, fed by its rivers for more than three thousand miles, draining the commerce of a country greater than the mind of man hath ever conceived -- return to your allegiance.  There is but one thing that stands in the way.  There is but one thing that at this hour stands between you and the Government, and that is Slavery.  The institution, cursed of God, which has taken its last refuge here, in His providence will be rooted out as the tares from the wheat, although the wheat be torn up with it.   I have given much thought to this subject.  I came among you, by teachings, by habit of mind, by political position, by social affinity, inclined to sustain your domestic laws, if by possibility they might be with safety to the Union.  Months of experience and of observation have forced the conviction that the existence of Slavery is incompatible with the safety either of yourselves of or the Union. As the system has gradually grown to its present huge dimensions, it were best if it could be gradually removed; but it is better, far better, that it should be taken out at once than that it should longer vitiate the social, political, and family relations of your country. I am speaking with no philanthropic views as regards the slave, but simply of the effect of Slavery on the master. See for yourselves.  Look around you and say whether this saddening, deadening influence, has not all but destroyed the very framework of your society.  I am speaking the farewell words of one who has shown his devotion to his country, at the peril of his life and fortune; who in these words can have neither hope nor interest, save the good of those whom he addresses; and let me here repeat, with all the solemnity of an appeal to Heaven to bear me witness, that such are the views forced upon me by the experience.  Come, then, to the unconditional support of the Government. Take into your own hands your own institutions; remodel them according to the laws of nations and of God, and thus attain that great prosperity assured to you by geographical position, only a portion of which was heretofore yours.  BENJAMIN F. BUTLER
the Manager has decided to give  SPLENDID DRAMATIC PERFORMANCES  SPLENDID DRAMATIC PERFORMANCES,  AFTERNOON at 3 o’clock.   EVENING at 7 ½ o’clock,  The magnificent Legendary Drama entitled  [JE]WESS OF FRANKFORT; Or, THE VISION OF FATE,   produced at each. This is one of the most fascin- interesting pieces  THE WHOLE CATALOGUE OF DRAMAS,  received on New-Year’s Day with  PERFECT RAPTURES OF APPLAUSE,  afford a rich entertainment to those  LADIES, CHILDREN, AND FAMILIES  [al]l be sure to witness it to-day.  COME THEN, ONE AND ALL  [ea]rly, get good seats, and you’ll  [EN]SURE OF SPENDING A JOYFUL HOLIDAY  The following at all hours:  COMMODORE NUTT, THE $30,000 nUTT,  The most extraordinary wonders of the world.  [?], that wonderful and extraordinary creature, the   WHAT IS IT? or MAN MONKEY,  has excited so much interest here for two years.  ALBINO FAMILY, FROM MADAGASCAR,  BEAUTIFUL CONNECTICUT GIANTESS  18 YEARS OLD, AND WEIGHTS 628 POUNDS  OLD ADAMS’S CALIFORNIA BEARS  led and performed by the renowned lion-tamer,  HERR DRIESBACH.  THE BEAUTIFUL COLORED TROPICAL FISH  Admission, 25 cents; Children under ten, 15 cents.     [?] LO’s GARDEN  [?]essee and Manager ………. WM. WHEATLEY  TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS  [TH]E GRAND, ROMANTIC, SPECTACULAR DRAMA, FAUST AND MARGUERITE.  MR. J.B. ROBERTS as MEPHISTOPHELES.  THIS EVENING and EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.  Scenery, costumes, and appointments of “Faust and [Margue]rite” are unsurpassable; some scenes Mr. Selwyn [?]o have painted as if he meant them to be framed for an [?]ary, so perfectly has he finished them. - [New-York [?]].    [Fau]st and Marguerite” is brilliant to the last degree; it [has] several of the most elaborate and striking scenic dis- [?] that have ever been presented in New-York. The [?]ing of the piece is superb, the scenery throughout mag-[nificen]t, the dresses rich and tasteful and full of variety. The [?]rama ever written would hardly need to be better put [?] the stage. - [New-York Tribune].  [?] have no recollection of a production that combined [?] admirably a spectacle with the positive feeling of a work.  Mr. J.B. Roberts, an actor of reputation, as Mephi[stophel]es, gave a remarkably strong and sinister interpretation [?] potentate’s character. He is beyond all doubt the best [?]entative of his part we have had here. - [New York [?]].    [?] …. Mr. L. R. Shewell  Valentine Mr. J. Lanergan  [?] … Mr. A. W. Fenno Seibel …… Mr. E. Lamb  [Marguer]ite….. Miss Emily Thorne  [?].... Miss Mary Wells Bertha…..Mrs. J.R.Scott    SCENERY, ENTIRELY NEW, by J.H. SELWYN.  DRESSES, by Mons. PHILLIPE and ASSISTANTS.  APPOINTMENTS, by GEORGE W. LETZINGER.  [?] MECHANICAL EFFECTS, by RUNYON & DEMILT.    FULL AND EFFICIENT CHORUS  Doors open at 7; to commence at 7 ¾ o’clock.  With the exception of the Press, no free list.         [BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC.  THIS EVENING, Saturday, Jan. 3,  Mr. MASON JONES  deliver his Oration  on   GARIBALDI,  [Recal]ling reminisces of four months’ sojourn with the Lib-[?] of Italy.  ___  [Do]ors open at 7 o’clock; commence at 8.  ___  Th]e Box-Office is now open for securing seats.  ___  [Ad]mission 25 cents; Reserved Seats in Parquette and Dress [?]e, 50 cents.         2nd REGIMENT BAND CONCERT  Mr. Helmsmuller ….. Conductor.  THIS (Saturday) EVENING, Jan. 3,   AT IRVING HALL,  [con]sisted by the following artists:  Mrs. J. E. THOMAS,  Mr. WM. CASTLE and Signor ABELLA  TICKETS 50 CENTS  [Fo]r sale at Beer & Schirmer’s., No. 701 Broadway, Sibell [?]lisbury’s, No. 7 Nassau st., and at Irving Hall.     [B]ROADWAY MENAGERIE AND ZOOLOGICAL] INSTITUTE,   Broadway, below Houston-st. L.B [?], Manager. -- This elegant and attractive School of [Natural History is now open daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., [?] the most splendid collection of   LIVING WILD ANIMALS  [?] the continent, including FOUR ELEPHANTS, LIONS, [TIGERS, BEARS, HYENAS, &c.  [Ad]mission 25 cents. Children under 10, 15 cents.  The animals will be fed at 3 o’clock p.m.     [?]BLO’S CONCERT SALOON.  GOODWIN & WILDER’S POLYMORAMA of the [?] Matinees, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, and [?]URDAY at 2 ½ o’clock. Performance, WEDNESDAY, [THURSDAY and FRIDAY, at 7 3.4 o’clock. Admission 25 [cents.] Reserved Seats 50 cents. Children 15 cents.     [THEATRE FRANCAISE - NIBLO’S CON-  CERT SALOON.  SATURDAY, Jan. 3, 1863,  FAUT QU’UNE PORTE SOIT OUVERTE OU FERME.  LE CODE DES FEMMES.  LE SERMENT D’FORACE.  [Do]ors open at 71/2; curtain rises at 8 precisely.  [?] for subscriptions and reserved seats, H. DARDON-[?]LE, No. 623 Broadway     [?]BUCKLEY'S SERENADERS,  Under the sole management of   J. G. COLLINS,  At PALACE MUSIC HALL,  14th-st., near 6th-av.  [?]hinese Fiddle, Sally come up, Sighing for the Bone Solo [?]mpa,” the Three Graces, Banjo Solo, Brass Band, Drink-[?] Song, and Burlesque Opera of LUCRETIA BORGIA.  [M]ss JULIA GOULD as LUCRETIA.  [D]oors open at 6 ¾; Concert begins 7 ¾.     [PARLOR or LIGHT GYMNASTICS  , with Music and new Apparatus, for Ladies and Gentlemen, [?]ses and Boys, at BRADY’S GYMNASIUM. No. 20 St. [?]k’s-place, 8th-st., under the directio nof a Professor for the [?] year Instructor at Dr. Dio Lewis’s Physical Institute of [?]ton.  ABNER S. BRADY     MR. MASON JONES will deliver Orations at BROOKLYN, in Academy of Music, (to-night). Jan’y 3.  ALBANY…… Jan’y 5.  TROY…… Jan’y 6.  [?]DSON…...Jan’y 7.  AUBURN…… Jan’y 8.  SYRACUSE …… Jan’y 9.  [A]nd on Monday, Jan 12, he will deliver his first oration in TREMONT TEMPLE, BOSTON. [A]pplications for engaging Mr. MASON JONES to be addressed to Box No. 1282 Post-Office, New-York.     FIFTH-AV. SKATING POND  Season Tickets for sale at the FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL, METROPOLITAN, ST. NICHOLAS, ASTOR HOUSE, and at [Th]e PRINCIPAL OFFICE, No. 474 Broadway.     Proposals  STATE OF CONNECTICUT, TREASURY OFFICE, Hartford, Dec. 26, 1862.    SALE OF STATE BONDS. - Sealed proposals for the purchase of $1,000,000 of the Bonds of the State of Connecticut will be received at the office of the Treasurer in Hartford until the 5th day of January, 1863, at noon, when said Proposals will be opened in the presence of such bidders as choose to attend, and the Bonds awarded to the highest bidders.   Each proposal must be accompanied with a certificate of deposit or certified check on any solvent Bank in the States of Connecticut or Massachusetts, or the City of New York, equal to 5 per cent of the amount subscribed, to be held as security for the faithful fulfillment of the bid, and returned to the owner on their order, and must state the number of Bonds of each denomination desired.  It is provided that no bid can be accepted at less than the par value of the Bonds, and full payment in funds current in New York and Boston will be required within seven days after notice of acceptance.  The Bonds are in denominations of $100, $500, and $1,000, dated January 1st, 1863, and payable in twenty years from date at the Treasurer’s office, with 6 per cent coupons attached payable at the same place in January and July of each year.  The sale of the above bonds is authorized by Act of the General Assembly passed at their special session in December, and the faith and credit of the state is pledged for their redemption.  GABRIEL W. COITE, State Treasurer.     NAVY AGENT’S OFFICE, New-York, Dec. 30, 1862.  SEALED PROPOSALS, indorsed “Proposal for Navy Beef,” or “Pork,” as the case may be, will be received at this office until THURSDAY, the 8th day of January next, at 12 o’clock, for furnishing and delivery at the Navy-Yard, at Brooklyn, N.Y., within ninety days from date of notification of acceptance of bid:   3,000 barrels Navy Beef   3,000 barrels Navy Pork.  The Beef and Pork to be of Navy Standard, as to the quality    [page ends
