Transcript

[front cover]
Private  Milton S. Lytle  Com. C. 125th Reg. Penn Vol.  Spruce Creek  Huntingdon County, Penna.  -------------------------------------------  Whoever finds this book will oblige the owner by returning it to him -------  Head Quarters   2nd Brigade, 1st Division  12th Army Corps  Loudon Valley, VA.      Maryland Heights.  October 6, 1862.  Having   neglected to keep a daily record of events as they transpired since entering the Army, I now undertake such general account of them as memory can supply.  For a year previous to my enlistment it was my earnest desire to enter the service of Uncle Sam but owing to the opposition of friends was prevented from doing so. After making
several ineffectual attempts to get off, I concluded to await the progress of events. In July the President issued a proclamation calling for three hundred thousand volunteers. This appeared to stir up a great enthusiasm among the people. War meetings were held in all parts of the country. Even Spruce Creek was not behind in this. Then, I thought, was the time to renew my request for privilege to enlist. Father, seeing the necessity of having more men in the field, no longer refused, and Mother gave a tacit consent.    Accordingly, I enlisted in the Huntingdon County Bible Company, which was then being raised by Wm. W. Wallace. This Compy. was preferred because I knew my friends would be pleased to see me join one having in it many of the religious and most moral men from the county. We assembled in Huntingdon about the 6th of August to make a temporary organization. After the business was completed we
received many kind attentions from the citizens. While in town I staid at Steel’s and am indebted to Major and Mrs. Steel, as well as to Marion and Esther for their kindness. On the 7th of Aug, transportation was furnished us. Dinner having been served at the Courthouse we repaired to the railroad to take the cars. All the citizens were out to see us off, and we started amid their “farewells” leaving many weeping eyes behind us.    It was after night when we arrived in Harrisburg. The Government gave us supper at the refreshment saloon, and supplied us a resting place on the R.R. platform. This was the first night that I had ever slept in any place than a bed, but I enjoyed it quite well, sleeping as soundly as I had ever done before. The next day (8th) we marched to Camp Curtin, put up tents, and in the evening considered ourselves soldiers. Here we remained about a week, the time being occupied in drilling, physical exami-
nations, receiving information &c. We were sworn into the service on the 11th.    On Saturday the 16th we received marching orders. At sunset we were aboard the train, and moved from Harrisburg at dark. We reached Baltimore just at day break on Sunday. In marching through the City we were greeted by the waving of flags from many of the windows, but out of respect for the day we refrained from any demonstration.   Before leaving Hb. our Co. was assigned to the 125th Reg. P.V. commanded by Col. Higgins. Of the other nine companies six were from Blair Co. and the remaining three from Huntingdon. Our Company officers were W.W.Wallace, Capt.; W. B. Zeigler, 1st Lieut; Wm. F. McPherran, 2nd Lieut.    The Regt took the cars again at 8 a.m. and proceeded to Washington, arriving there at 11. We were entertained at the “Soldier’s Retreat” till Monday, when we marched over to Virginia. We penetrated the enemies [sic] Country
(“sacred soil”) about five miles and pitched our tents in Camp Willis. Nothing unusual transpired here. We drilled some, “loafed” a great deal, and got very lazy. Our Company (C) was detached from the Reg. and sent to Fort Richardson to drill on Artillery. In the mean time the Reg. moved to Fort Barnard and in a few days we rejoined them - not having become very efficient in the artillery.    While in camp there we were kept a little more at work than we had previously been. Although not anticipating much danger from the enemy we were required to do picket duty, but I regarded it as a pleasure, and had no desire to escape it. However when the terrible fighting was in progress at Bull Run on the 30th & 31st of Aug. the cannonading being distinctly heard in our Camp, and when it became evident that our forces were defeated, there was certainly cause to expect the Rebels to attempt the capture of Washington, although the fortifications around that
[A footnote was added to the top of this page in pencil (the diary is written in ink), corresponding to the superscript “x” on page 10. The note reads: “The 125th threw up earthworks on Abbington Heights when result of battle became known”]  City rendered such a thing impossible.x But they were wide awake and made a dash to the Upper Potomac, and crossed into Maryland. A rapid pursuit was necessary in order to prevent them from securing their object, which was to obtain supplies, and put rebellious schemes in the heads of the Marylanders, the cutting off of Washington and finally the invasion of Pennsylvania.    The 125th was ordered to move on Saturday, Aug. Sept. 6th, in light marching order. It was after dark when we started, but it was a beautiful moonlight night, and the boys being tired of camp life, marched off in the highest glee, resolved to make a glorious campaign of it. Our line of march lay directly toward the Potomac until within half a mile of the Long Bridge when we took the South bank of the river and crossed at Georgetown. We traveled till one O’clock and there spread our blankets in a clover field and slept till morning. At day break we were off again and by 12 M. were at Rock-
ville. The spirit was completely out of the boys by this time. They threw themselves on the grass, too fatigued to attend to anything but sleep. But we were given until Tuesday to refresh ourselves, and on the afternoon of that day again took up the line of march. It is impossible to describe our wandering during the succeeding few days. We traveled over a great deal of Maryland soil without accomplishing any very considerable distance if measured in a direct line. On Saturday, Sept. 13th, we reached Frederick. The Rebels had been driven from the City on the day before, and we encamped on ground which had been in their possession. Burnside’s cannon, shelling the enemy rear could still be heard. Sunday the 14th was an exciting day for us, and so also was the week which that day ushered in. In the morning we made our preparations and started. Frederick City was crowded with military. The citizens evinced their loyalty in all manners possible, and I think
looked upon the Federal Army as their deliverers. They could at least discern a striking difference between the Union Soldiers and the half-fed, half-clothed rebel horde that had preceded us. Frederick lies in a valley which runs North and south. We went to the West, crossed the mountain and found ourselves in another extensive valley. When on the summit we could see a battle going on on the opposite mountain [Lytle is referring to the Battle of South Mountain], but from the distance could form no idea of the result. In order to deceive the enemy as to our movements we took a circuitous route across the valley, not approaching very nearly the scene of conflict till after darkness had set in. Then we went on but were compelled to remain by the roadside several hours as we could not proceed on account of passing wagons and Ambulances. While there waiting the corpse of Genl. Reno was conveyed along our column by a body of cavalry. The ambulances were loaded with wounded, whose groans fell solemnly on the ear in the
experienced fear at the proximity of danger. When the road was clear we went to the foot of the mountain, and learning that our troops held the top, we slept with a feeling of security.  On Monday morning (15th) I looked around a part of the field where the battle was fought and went to see some of the Rebel prisoners. I had not time to visit the place where the hardest fighting was done, as we were soon led after the retreating foe. We did not get a sight of him that day. He was about twenty four hours in advance of us when we passed through Boonesboro. However we again heard our cannon troubling his rear in the evening, but cannonading had become so familiar that we paid but little attention to it.   There was no signs of a move on the 16th till after 10 a.m. when the big guns began to roar, the long rolling
[18-19]  beat in our Camp, and we, in solid column, marched in the direction of the sound. We remained in this position all day, the engagement was confined to artillery however, so we experienced the disappointment (or the satisfaction) of again not getting into a fight.    I now began to think I h began at once - the volleys following each other in rapid succession. Our Brigade formed immediately, each regiment being in a solid column, and marched to the conflict. We had no breakfast, and no water in our canteens. We moved slowly until we reached a piece of woods
which kept the contending armies from our view. Here we made some movements preparatory to advancing, and it was here that we saw the first effects of the battle. The wounded were carried from the field, and the sight brought to my mind the fate that would probably befall some of my own comrades. Up to this time however, I did not feel assured that our regiment would be engaged, as we discovered that the Rebels had already been driven a short some distance, and I thought that the contest would perhaps be decided in a short time. But such was not to be the case. We passed through the woods on the double quick, and on reaching the middle of a Field just beyond were ordered to lie down. While in this position we had a distinct view of our forces then engaged. They were at the edge of another woods, the Rebels being at the other side. The shot and shell flew over our heads thick and fat, and many

ade not coming up with us as they should. We sent out skirmishers who reported two regiments coming to meet us and immediately we received a tremendous volley. This was returned and I have reason to believe with good effect. The enemy appeared to waver, but reforming, they came on, and we soon saw were bringing fearful odds against us. They advanced in solid columns pouring their balls among us, but every musket in our regiment was being used to the best advantage. As we were now situated there was nothing to prevent the enemy from coming up on either flank, and they were not disposed to allow such an opportunity to pass unimproved. But not a man offered to leave his post. Col. Higgins shouted three times to cease firing before he was obeyed. When we had fallen back out of the woods a battery and several regiments came to our assistance and they soon compelled the Rebels to beat a hasty retreat. Having done our part of the work
we set about caring for the wounded. We could not tell at once what our loss was, as there were some whose fate we did not know. Our subsequent estimate shows threex killed George in our company; George Simpson, colorbearer; John S. McCoy, and David Kuhn. The last had long been one of my acquaintances in Spruce Creek. I assisted in his burial on Thursday. We had about thirteen wounded. Among them is Elias Zeek also from Spruce Creek. In the Regiment we had twenty-eight killedx and one hundred and nineteen wounded. With those who were slightly wounded the casualties were about 150. Genl. Mansfield, commanding our Army Corps, was killed. Genl. Crawford, our brigadier, was wounded, and Adjt. Johnson of our regt. was killed. There appears to have been a blunder on the part of some of our commanders in leading us forward without any support that could be rendered immediately available, and    [A footnote was added to the bottom of page 26 in pencil, corresponding to the superscript “x” on this page. The footnote reads: “There were four - U. D. Hoffman.” A footnote also was added to the top of page 27 in pencil (the diary is written in ink), corresponding to the superscript “x” on page 26. The note reads: “Thirty killed and twenty died of their wounds.”]
we receive praise from military quarters for doing as we did.    The impressions which were produced by the scenes of Thursday, the 18th, can never be effaced from my mind. It was confidently expected that the battle would be renewed on that day, but all was quiet, the Rebels having asked a truce to bury their dead. This afforded an opportunity for all who desired to take a full survey of the field. It was a horrible sight. The sun came out clear and warm, and the lifeless bodies soon became blackened and swollen, and before night, emitted an unbearable smell. It was curious to see the various positions in which the dead lay. Some, not instantly killed, had arranged their blankets under them, using some other article for a pillow, and thus breathed their last. Many evinced by their position the violence of their death struggles, and others died so quickly that their limbs retained the position they had at the instant of being struck by the ball. One Rebel had been in
the act of tearing his cartrid[g]e, and he still held it in his fingers with his arm drawn up to his mouth. I saw many similar instances.    In regard to the number of dead on the Rebel and Union sides. I believe that there were five of the former to one of the latter. In one place where the Rebs had formed a line of battle about forty rods in length, they had fallen so thickly that if they had returned to life and risen they would have presented a very respectable front. The enemy did not devote the day to the purposes they pretended, but instead they retreated, recrossed the Potomac to a land where treason finds more favor than in Maryland. Their raid into this state caused great alarm in Pennsylvania. Gov. Curtin called out the militia, and he was responded to by seventy thousand men. Among them were both John and Marion.   On Friday afternoon (19th) we left the field of the great Battle of Antietam. There was
nothing peculiarly interesting in our march. We continued it till the middle of the night, and slept on the ground till morning, then resumed it, traveling over as rough a country as I had ever seen. We halted near Sandy Hook and about a mile from the Potomac on Saturday. Our campaign had lasted two weeks and being on the march almost continually, some who had not been much inured to hardship became sick. I was of this number myself. I became unfit for service and am so yet. After staying a few days we moved to Maryland Heights, and on the next Sunday went back to the Valley around the end of the mountain. There I procured lodging at a farm house, and the kindness of the people, their good accommodations, and the excellence of the victuals restored me to comparative health. So when the regt. returned to this place I felt able to follow it, but acted imprudently in doing so. On coming again to camp my appetite left me, and, without medical attendance, I am not
improving. I am in hopes that relief will be afforded soon. We are directly opposite Harper’s Ferry, a post which was disgracefully surrendered just before the battle of Antietam, and which did our cause almost as much injury as we did it good. From present indications I infer that we will remain here some time, probably all winter.   Oct. 10, 1862  We have had  no tents since leaving Ft. Barnard on the 6th of Sept, and no shelter whatever except such as we sometimes had opportunity of constructing of brush. Today we received portable tents, each man being allowed half of one. Henry Canan, Benner and I went together. We used the three pieces to advantage.  Decatur arrived this morning from Harrisburg
The folks at home had heard of my sickness and had urged him to come and see me. They are very anxious on my account. I received letters from Father and Marion yesterday, and one from Porter this evening. Capt. Wallace has also received one from Father. I was very much pleased to see Decatur.  Saturday Oct 11.  I obtained  a pass and went with D. to Harper’s Ferry today. We made several purchases of articles which would be conducive to my comfort.   Oct. 12--  Remained in quarters till afternoon, then walked with Decatur to some of the surrounding camps. Yesterday and today I did most of the cooking for our mess. We have had a variety of victuals and from the way I partake of them one would think my health returning-----  Oct. 13. It was necessary for Decatur to leave today. I went with him to Sandy Hook at 10 a.m. but had to
remain till 2 as the train did not leave sooner. Having his pass in my pocket I used it for a trip to the Ferry.   October 15 1862  Everything indicates that the 125th is to remain in its present position for some time. It is said that we are soon to be furnished large tents instead of the ones we now occupy. The time will be soon come when the Army must move further South or go into winter quarters. The “boys” would be very glad to learn that the latter was to be done just where we now are, unless another move could be made to contribute largely towards putting down the Rebellion. [blurry text] buildings of fortifications on their Summit. The country around Harper’s Ferry is naturally a strong position, but it is now to be made so that it will never again fall into the hands of the Rebels. The weather and woods have the appearance particular to Autumn. These days remind one of the scenes about home at this season and almost make one wish to be among them. Benner and I went out to the mountain this forenoon for Chestnuts. We did not succeed in getting many but came across a supply of butternuts.    I visited the other camps, since dinner and brought with me some provisions. My stomach is not yet
[Lytle appears to have erased and written over the first three lines of this page].    Headquarters, Kane’s Brigade   Loudon Valley, Va.  November 10th, 1862.   The Regt.  moved from Maryland Heights on Tuesday, Oct. 28th, and crossed the mountain to Pleasant Valley. On Thursday, the 30th, we cr left Maryland. Crossing the Potomac and Shenandoah at Harper’s Ferry, we came down the River about one mile, entered this Valley and encamped at the foot of Louden Mount. I was detailed as one of Gen. Kane’s Orderlies on Thursday. I commenced my duties on Friday ^8th^. Headquarters were then up the Shenandoah Valley about seven miles from here. When I started to make my first trip the weather indicated snow. The storm commenced at 11 o’clock and continued all day. In returning to camp I made a tour of the picket lines of the 20th ct. 123rd N.Y., 124th & 125th Penn. Regts. They extended a distance of five miles, and I enjoyed the tramp through the snow but pitied the men during picket duty in such weather and was glad of my own better fortune. The next day, Saturday Nov. 8, Head Quarters were removed to this side of the mountain
and are not more than forty rods from our Camp. I come over every morning with dispatches and documents from the Reg. and remain till others are to be taken back. Since Head Quarters are so near I make two or three such trips daily, but they do not require more than an hour to accomplish them.--------------------------------------------    Head Quarters, 2nd Brigade  1st Division, 12th Army Corps.  November 15th 1862.   After acting Orderly one week I find it a pleasant position. I now draw my rations here, and I have a tent to myself. I have not however brought my baggage over, as it seems like leaving home to go from the Regiment. Last night Capt. Green sent me with a dispatch to Gen. Williams Hd. Qr. I left these Hd. Qr. at 9 O’clock. It took nearly an hour and a half to go over, and it was after 12 O’c. when I got back. I consider it an evidence of having gained the confidence of Capt. Green, as there were mounted orderlies here who might have taken the papers over.----------------------------   I have had but little to do
today. I employed the time in writing letters &c.   Sunday Nov. 16th   There were  indications of snow this morning. I took the countersign out to the pickets. Not finding the Officer in Command where the reserve was stationed, I went to the outpost and along the line to the left, but gained no information of his whereabouts. I returned to the reserve and after waiting half an hour he came. I came back to Hd. Qs. after dark. It did not snow.     November 17th  Rain commen-  ced falling last night and continued all day, our Regiment (and also the rest of the Brigade) was called into line in the night, the alarm having been raised that the Rebs were coming. There are bodies of Confederate troops in the valley, which threaten to try the chances of an attack on this place. What their strength is, is uncertain, but Genl. Kane is most vigilant and prepared to receive them. He
is out with the pickets nearly all the time, and spends his nights on the mountain. The battery is in position to sweep both valleys. I went with a message to the 20th ct. to night. Very dark, and being unacquainted with the road I had a serious time through the brush and over the rocks. Went to the Regiment (125th) after 9 o’clock and found the men sleeping on their arms.------  November 18th  The bad   weather continued today. I had a dry place to stayand but little to do until evening. Went to pickets with the countersign. Nearly dark when I started and roads very muddy. Had quite a search for the Captain in Command, and was not at all pleased with the trouble it took to find him. He was enjoying the comforts of a Virginia farm house, and the place was so agreeable that I was in no hurry to leave it. A few minutes by the fire and the prospect of a warm supper restored me
to good humor. I waited half an hour and then partook sumptuously of cornbread and hot coffee. The night was intensely dark and in returning I came on without regard to mud.   Nov. 19th 1862. A cloudy and foggy day. I was away from Hedqrs. but very little. Was engaged most of the time in writing letters. The Artillery was brought off the mountain this evening. The Rebels have become alarmed at Burnside’s movements, and the forces under Jackson have left the Valley, and it is supposed have gone to Richmond.  November 20th  This morning  I was delighted to see signs of a change in the weather. The atmosphere ws clear, and the clouds not so heavy as yesterday. The Sun shone out brightly about the time of setting. Tonight however I fear that all these indications are about to prove false. The disappearance of the Rebels from this vicinity has evidently given great relief to Genl. Kane. He had the Brigade out for drill this afternoon.
Yesterday was a   dull, dreary, eventless day. Nothing occurred worthy of being noted down even in this book--------- This morning the sky was clear and the Sun came out bright and warm. The Brigade was out for review at 9 a.m. I went to the field with a message for Col. Higgins. After delivering it I returned to Hdqrs. and viewed the scene from a distance. Took a dispatch to the officer commanding guards at the poont pontoon bridge across the Shenandoah this evening.  Nov. 23. Nothing to do at Headquarters today. I went to the Hospital to see Fletcher Conrad. Then returned and remained till night.   November 24th This was a frosty morning. The air was quite refreshing at 6 ½ O’clock. I enjoyed the short walk to various points with messages. The Genl. and staff were about out at review for about four hours. As usual my work during the day was very light.
In the   absence of business today I wrote letters. Acknowledged the receipt of articles from Decatur which I found in my tent on going to camp last night. Wrote to my old College friend Ike Mills who is in the 63rd Reg. P.V. Was down to the pontoon bridge with a message this evening.  Nov. 27th. This was “thanksgiving day.” The regiments enjoyed a respite from their ordinary daily duties, but the boys were all busy plying their axes and building huts in Camp for Winter. I was over assisting Benner with ours. It was quite a rude structure, about eight by nine feet, covered with canvas. We can look out through the openings in the walls these nights at the stars. But although this November weather is rather cool, I sleep very comfortably with but one blanket over me. We have yet to close the cracks with mud and our home will be finished. Capt. Green, A.A. G. went away this evening and I was sent to take charge of his office
during his absence. I was pleased to be so entrusted.  Saturday, Nov. 29th  Snow was fall-  ing when I came out this morning and continued till about 10 O’clock a.m. I was out in the storm in search of a Captain who was going on a scouting expedition, but I did not find him. Went to Genl. Williams Headquarters. Was gone from 11 till 3 O’clock. Saw nothing unusually interesting on the way. Received letters this evening from Decatur and Marion. Both are in the best of spirits, and each has a hope of obtaining an enviable position soon. Decatur seeks promotion in the Military line, and Marion’s ambition leads him to look for advancement at the seat of government.  Benner & Canan have completed our Winter quarters. We have now a very comfortable place. The beds are arranged along one side of the house. Henry and Benner have theirs about a foot from the ground. Mine is three feet higher than theirs, and is placed over their heads.   In the Log Hut, Nov. 30  Went to Headqrs at day break and after performing some
slight duties was relieved and returned to Camp, was engaged in the capacity of “washer-woman” for a while and then went to see Fletcher. I was back at Hdqrs about supper time but did not remain-----  Dec. 1st, 1862. The first day of winter was not very winter like. Rained a little in the morning, but the day was not cold. Not much to do at Hdqrs. Genl. K and Capt. Green were absent in the afternoon inspecting the 124th.  Dec. 5th December has until today been as pleasant as May. But a storm is now raging with indications of continuing for some time, and before tomorrow, we may all be buried in snow. Wrote to T.P. Roberts.  Saturday, Dec. 6th 1862.   Was at the HEadquarters of Genl. Williams & Slocum. The former has been removed up the river to the Sharpsburg road, and the latter is on Bolivar Heights. I was in no hurry in passing through Harper’s Ferry. Stopped at various places and at one enjoyed an oyster stew. The Sun was out nearly all day but had little effect on the Snow.  Dec. 7. I was glad to
have the privilege of remaining indoors nearly all day. The air was cold. I assisted Frazer in making ‘apple dumplings’ for dinner. The dish was relished by the mess. Quite a pleasant way of spending the Sabbath.    Finis.    Maryland Heights   October 15 1862    Army of the Potomac inactive., Has been since the battle of Antietam. 125th Reg. P.V. has been encamped in the neighborhood of Sandy Hook most of the time on Maryland heights. There are other camps, all around us. Bolivar Heights, on other side of Potomac, is occupied by Sumner’s Corps. Our Camp is being leveled off and the preparations being made indicate that we are to remain here ----------------The mountains to our right are to be cleared of timber men are now working it.
[end book]
