Transcript

[Cover]
November 13, 1861.
M.S.Lytle,   1861  Farmer’s High School,  Penna.  Diary --   Spruce Creek.  M.
Sunday, Sept. 1, 1861.  We had Bible Class this forenoon, and Preaching this afternoon. While not attending these I was in Wetmore’s room, except while out walking this evening with Harry Isett, Lynn Troutman, and Wetmore.    Sept. 2nd  Studied some this morning. Went to Prof. Whitman’s garden and procured some flower seeds. Read a little today. Our supper time was changed from 5 till 7.     Sept. 3  This morning I labeled and put away the geological specimens obtained on our last expedition. Was engaged
a short time in arranging matters in the Reading Room. WAs with Tom Roberts this afternoon attending to our duties as Committee, we with Brenneman having been appointed to select some plan for conducting the Anniversary of our Society. We drew up a programme of performances for the occasion, and the committee met in Brenneman’s room tonight.    Septem. 4th  The Trustees and Delegates met here today. Our class had no recitations. We had a much finer dinner than usual, but did not get it till after 1 o’clock. Played Euchre in W-- room, went to store, and got portraits of my room-mate, Craig, and of Lynn Troutman.    Sept. 5  Made some cuttings from tree in nursery with a view of propagating, and sending them home. Made a handle for my geological hammer in the carpenter shop. Tonight I wrote a part of the report of our Committee on Anniversary. We recommended all that in our opinion was necessary.  Sept. 6th--  Was not at recitation at 11 ½ . The class went on another geological excursion at 2 ½ p.m. It commenced raining before we got down to the road. We took shelter in the engine room. Dr. Pugh and several others started away before the
shower was over. Those who remain behind were unable to find the leader, and went down to Centre Furnace. All remained there some time, when we discovered him at a distance on a hill. We went over, and soon the rain fell in torrents. It was useless to attempt to reach a shelter, and the result was that we all got a complete “ducking.” We returned at 8, and made a change of clothing. Society met. Tom Roberts read our report. The Society selected performers for the Anniversary. I was selected to deliver the Anniversary Address. Was appointed to speak extemporaneously on the subject of Modern Patriotism.    Sept. 7.   Walked out to the woods and through the botanical gardens this morning. At 9 a.m. I went on an excursion west of School. I had no company. Went three miles, and found some fossils. Returned just in time for dinner. I brought Hallam’s Literature (1 vol) and Lectures in English Literature from the Library. When the mail arrived I went to P.O and brought the papers. Tonight I read Lectures on Literature.    Sunday, Sept 8.  Wrote quite a lengthy letter to J.A. Young this morning, and one to Father this evening. Did not attend Bible Class. There was no preaching. Took a walk ---
Sept. 9.  Dr. Pugh did not meet the class at 11 ½ a.m. I had two ambrotypes taken. There was a party of visitors here this afternoon, among them several handsome ladies. The latter made quite free with the students, and some of their acts of familiarity were received with vociferous cheering. The visitors were evidently very well pleased. Dr. Pugh at super threatened to expel all who would participate in such proceedings hereafter.    Sept. 10.  I created some surprise among the chemists at 9 a.m. by appearing in the Laboratory. I had not been there for two weeks. We finished [R?] Chemistry. Received a letter from Father by this afternoon’s mail. He sent me some money. Decatur has enlisted in the Army. He left home on Saturday. John and Marion were at home yesterday.    Sept. 11  Was in Laboratory from 8 am until recitation. The class recited the first lesson in mineralogy. I was in Dr. Pugh’s office for an hour or so after prayers. Had quite an interesting conversation with him.    Sunday, Sept. 15 1861.  I returned this morning from a geological excursion on which the Class started on Thursday, the 12th.  We had all for  [illegible] of Thursday to make preparations. Our dinner
was ready 11a.m. and at 12 we were on our way. The direction taken was almost due N. from the School. We traveled rapidly for some time, but were suddenly brought to a stand by someone finding a fossilferous stone in a field. All hands began searching, and in my eagerness (?) to make some discovery that would astonish my classmates, I wandered some distance away from them. Being disappointed in my search I returned to the place where I had left our party, but they had gone. I was not very anxious to find them, and as I went on in a course as nearly towards Bellefonte as I could make out, I was, however, somewhat mistaken in my calculations. I found myself after a short time in the Barrens, a place3 densely wooded, and sparsely inhabited. I was unfortunate in not meeting any one of whom I could make inquiry concerning the direction that should be taken. I at last came to a road, which appeared to have been traveled, I kept on this for several miles, when another road which showed no signs of having been trod by man or beast for years, was arrived at. It ran S.W. and N.E. and at right angles to the one which had brought me to the crossing. I determined, whatever might be the result, to take the old road, and after
several hours travel I was happy to find a habitation, and that in reality, there was a human being in these wild parts. He informed that I was then three miles from Rock Forge, the place where it was intended that we should meet the wagon. I now saw my way quite clearly. A mile and a half further in I passed Church who had the wagon in charge. I did not remain with him, but took the nearest route to Bellefonte, where I arrived at 6 p.m. At 7 all of the party arrived. Most of us put up at the Common House. About 8, Harry Isett, Lynn Troutman, and I visited the Misses McCoy. We were not in a hurry to leave them, and did not get to our hotel, and to bed, before 3 am on Friday. We were about as early as any of our companions, and ready to continue our journey, at 7 o’clock. We took Milesburg in our course, and there Harry isett and I drank a little brandy to keep up our spirits. We went directly through Bald Eagle Valley, passed numerous iron works, and after geologizing along Bald Eagle Creek, arrived at the village of Howard, at 5 p.m. From thence we crossed Muncy Ridge to Humblesburg, where we took supper, and stayed over night. By 7 O’clock on yesterday we were again on the tramp. Went by the most direct route to Heda Furnace, from thence down to Nittany Valley.
keeping near the base of Nittany Mountain. When opposite Zion Harry Isett and I concluded to leave the party and go to Bellefonte or Milesburg. We obtained some articles from the Wagon, and reached Zion just in time to make the Bellefonte Stage. At 2 O’clock pm we left to Bellefonte for the Milesburg, where we engaged a room, and slept till suppertime. In the evening we called upon Miss Jenna Ryman, and were pleased to find Miss Sella McCoy there. Harry and I remained with them until after Sunday had arrived. We no doubt encroached some upon the Sabbath day. We bid a final adieu to Milesburg about two o’clock a.m. and made a forced march for the School We arrived at 7. Obtained a little breakfast and went to bed. I did not go to Bible Class, nor to dinner. Was at Preaching. There was a number absent from Bible Class who were prohibited from having either dinner or supper. I was more fortunate, as no question were asked of me--  Sept. 16.  This morning the faculty met and expelled Norris. I have not heard what his offence was, but suppose it was for general misconduct. At 5 p.m. our Class went to the Store and had an ambrotype taken, including all
the members of the Class. It was reported that a political meeting was to be held in the school tonight, and after prayers Dr. Pugh gave us all permission to attend. We went to the [road?] but the speakers had not yet arrived, and we returned.  Sept. 17.  Went to the Laboratory and did a little at analysis this forenoon. Was there a short time after recitations this afternoon. The class had another picture taken at 5 p.m. I received a letter from Young. He has been in Pittsburg, but was to start for Washington today. Although this was a dreary morning, and several showers fell this afternoon, we are enjoying a most delightful evening. It is almost impossible to attend to my most urgent duties.  Sept 18.  Dr. Pugh having gone to Bellefonte we had no recitation at 11 ½ am. Was in Lab this forenoon, and this afternoon till 3, when I came to my room and slept. We finished Veterinary. Have been reading in Hallam’s Literature tonight.   Sept. 19.  Although I employ considerable time in the Laboratory, I am not successful in getting much accomplished. We got through Calculus. I wrote to
Father tonight, and read in Hallam.  Sept. 20-- No recitation at 11, as Dr. Pugh was absent. Our class commenced Mechanics. The meeting of Society was quite interesting.  A part of “The Merchant of Venice” was performed by Stover, Roberts, Parks, Fisher, Troutman C., Brenneman, and Kisterbock. They made a good appearance, being in Costume, which through manufactured by themselves were quite suitable. A considerable number of visitors were present. The Cressen Society having adjourned, most of its members were there. I was not on performance. On Orations for next meeting---------  Sept. 21.-- Having no substance ready to work at, I did not go to the Laboratory today. Employed the forenoon in reading Hallam, and sleeping. I procured from the Library vol. 2 of Hallam’s Literature, and the “Middle Ages.” Received a letter from Father, He sends me some money. Decatur went from Harrisburg to Washington on Wednesday. All is well at home, except Grandmother who continues poorly, and will never recover. In the hall this afternoon we had some amusement. It consisted of a sham battle; our weapons being apples. Was in Tom Robert’s room tonight and partook of some wild pigeon, which he had shot and cooked--
Sunday, Sept. 22.  This morning the weather reminded me that the “melancholy days have come.” The air and the appearance of the mountains gave evidence of the presence of Autumn. Tom Roberts and I walked out to the woods. I then came to my room, and read the middle ages till Bible Class. There was preaching this afternoon by a minister from New Jersey. His text was “I write until you young men, because you are strong.” and his sermon was excellent.  Sept. 23.  This morning was quite cool. Walked out to the woods. Did not study much, and was not at 1 o’clock recitation. In Laboratory 6 hours.    Sept. 24.  Was in Laboratory from 6 till 10 a.m. and from 2 till 5 p.m. From what I can learn I fear that very few of the class are successful in Analysis.  I was requested tonight to take part in the performance of two or three scenes in the Merchant of Venice on the evening of the Anniversary. Some of the Cresson boys are indulging in angry disposition towards us. They say that our Exercises on the 25th of Oct. are to hold merely as a “celebration” of our victory at the contest, which came off on Oct. 26 of last year.  Sept 25. Commenced work in Lab this morning, but at 9 O’clock, a slight accident
occurred in my manipulations and I left it and have not been down since. Read Hallam this afternoon. McDowell and McFarlane were expelled at 3 O’clock, McDowell got into a difficulty with Prof Whitman, and while the Prof was about giving him a thrashing, McFarlane interfered and prevented it. The Faculty did not give them time to make a change of clothing, but started them immediately. After supper there was great cheering for the ex students, and groaning for Whitman (Botany Jake). Our class was in Pugh’s office to see about making an excursion to Snowshoe this week. In Chapel Dr. Pugh made some remarks concerning the expulsions that have occurred lately. Norris was not expelled on account of any evil disposition, but on account of continued neglect of duty. Tonight I am making preparations for our Snowshoe expedition.  Saturday, Sept 28  We returned our excursion at 6 p.m. A part of the Class (Miles, Holliday, McCormick, Banks, Smith, Eckman, and I) left the School on Thursday (26th) at 8 am and after a very pleasant walk, arrived at Bellefonte. The remainder of the class went over in the afternoon. All who were there in time (8 p.m.) except myself
attended religious services, that being the day for fasting and prayer. All business operations appeared to be suspended, both along the way and in the town. There was however a disgraceful scene on the street in the evening. Two men, surrounded by a crowd, were quarreling about political matters. At 6 P.M. I visited my friend, Jennie R___, at Milesburg. The Evening was passed pleasantly, as usual when in her company. Was again in Bellefonte at 1 O’clock. We took the Snowshoe train at 8 a.m. on Friday, and went by a tortuous route up a ridge of the Alleghenies. The speed up the mountain was not very great. We could get off the cars, geologize a short time, and get on again. We had not this opportunity, however, in going down the mountain on the opposite side. At 11 o’clock we were in Snowshoe, a place containing three or four houses, all of which are hotel.s J.D. Isett, Eckman and I lodged at a house back of the depot. We had a quite comfortable place. In the afternoon the rain which by the way had been falling since the previous night, and which gave me a slight sprinkling in going from Milesburg to Bellefonte) prevented us from going out until between three and four o’clock p.m., when
I succeeded in arousing the party. We went to the coal mines, two miles from Snowshoe at the terminus of the railroad, and made an exploration of a mine. It rained too much to geologize. We returned to our Hotels, took supper, and were soon ready for bed---  This morning was cloudy, Instead of walking from Snowshoe to Bellefonte, as we had intended, we again took the cars, geologizing as we ascended the mountain. On the track we found an obstacle in the shape of a large tree, which required all hands to remove it. When we had made about half the descent, the Engine left the train to see whether damage had been done to the bridges below. After it had crossed one the engineer discovered a break, so that it was unsafe to recross it. Word was sent back to the train. The cars were started, and ran over the bridges safely. Reached Bellefonte at two p.m and took dinner. We engaged teams to bring us here. Arrived a short time ago. This trip though not very fruitful in a geological point of view, was to me the most pleasant that we have made.  Sept. 29 (Sunday)  Bible Class at 9 a.m. and an interesting sermon by Rev. Moore, this afternoon. Read some in Hallam’s. Wrote a
letter to Mother. Walked out to the Vineyard with Harry Isett and Lynn Troutman after supper ----  Sept. 30th.  Was engaged about the Laboratory nearly all day. This evening I labeled and put away all the geological specimens obtained in my three last excursions. After prayers Dr. Pugh read a letter from one of his friends, who is raising a Cavalry Company as a body-guard for Genl. Anderson. All are to be chosen men, they must emit intelligence and morality with physical hardihood and courage. This is quite an inducement.    Oct. 1, 1861. Today I made a resolution that I would hereafter study all my lessons at night, and employ the time intervening from 6 till 9 AM in reading or writing. Received a letter from MArion. He is now in Spruce Creek. They have not heard from Decatur for several days. He is in the Camp Juniata, Washington City, under Col. Irvin of the Forty-ninth Regiment, Penna Volunteers. The “Dramatis Association” of the W.A.S. Society met in the Third Story recitations room at 5 o’clock P.M. We rehearsed several scenes of the Merchant of Venice. We will perform it at the Anniversary---
Oct. 2. This morning I wrote a letter for Wetmore to Mr. Palmer, who is raising the “Anderson Troop.” I also wrote home, my letter being directed to Marion, asking permission to enlist in this company. Dr. Pugh is opposed to any of our Class going, but will give me a recommendation if I am determined. After closing my letter I obtained a plan of Troop, made a copy, and sent it home. I hope that all concerned will entertain ideas on the subject similar to my own. This afternoon Miss Delta McCoy, Miss McBride, and a Mrs. Allen, all from Bellefonte were here. Harry Isett and I accompanied them through the botanical gardens, and through a part of the Building. We afterwards came to my room, and among other things, played a little at cards. They left at 6 o’clock. Our Society held a special meeting after prayers. There was no business of great importance, all being about a band and programme for the Anniversary. I have learned that at the last meeting of the Society, at which I was not present, I was elected President. I have spent most of tonight in Tom Roberts’ room, where a number of us were proposing Commendations. It was very good amusement, but unprofitable---
Oct. 3.--  The Class has been using the Reading Room during the last few days for making mineralogical experiments. It got very dirty. I cleaned it up this morning. Was in Laboratory nearly five hours this afternoon. Received a letter from Marion. Grandmother died this morning at four O’clock. She will be buried at ten tomorrow. I cannot be there  - In regard to my desire to enlist, he says that Father and Mother will not consent, and endeavor to convince me that I should not go. He says “They (our parents) have spent hundreds of dollars in educating you, and now that you are almost ready to graduate, it is not strange that they do not wish to set you up to be shot at.” IT is true that their kindness has put me under vast obligations to them, and I would not wish to disobey them, but it is to our government that we are indebted for the privilege of benefitting and being benefitted. How shall we repay our country? By holding our lives as too valuable to be hazarded in its defence, or by laying them down if necessary, in order that it may stand? There is but one thing that will prevent me from going, that is the grief that I think it would bring upon my mother. Decatur is now at Fall Church.
His address is “Care Capt. J.B. Miles 49th Regt. Penna Vols. Washington, D.C.” From what I can learn from the papers, his regiment must have an advanced position in the Federal Army.  Oct 4. Made NH today. I was required to be in the laboratory from 6 am till 5 pm. Could not attend recitations. I took the chair of our Society tonight. My Inaugural was very brief, and contained nothing of importance. Our Miscellaneous business referred mostly to the Anniversary.   Oct 5. At 2 p.m. went to P.O and brought R. Room papers, the “Thespians Corps” rehearsed in upper recitation room after 5. The Corps is composed of the following persons.  T.P. Roberts - Duke of Venice  A.J. Fisher - Antonio, Merchant of V.  C.E. Troutman - Bassanio, friend of Ant.  C. Troutman- Gratiano  W. Craig - Salarino - Friends of Antonio  L. Craig - Solanio  A.M. Stone - Shylock, A Jew  Tubal ^W.E. McAllister^ - A Jew, His friends,  A.M. Parker - Portia, an Heiress,  J. Kisterbock - Nerissa, her waiting maid  Act 1 Scene 3: Act 3 Scene 1, Scene 3; Act 4, Scene 5  The speaking in Chapel this evening deserves note for the splendid manner in which it was performed. The Speakers were Loblinger and McAlister, both Washingtonians. The latter had a theatrical performance.
I commenced a paper for the Anonymous Box tonight, “The Mercurial Miscellany” is the title, edited by “Motocrat.” I obtained from the Library first vol. Shakespeare, containing “Merchant of Venice,” and two vols. Mod. Brit. Essay, containing those of Mackintosh and Carlysle. Since I came to my room (at 9 ½) tonight, somebody has been playing a violin in the room under this, and there has also been some dancing. A moment ago I heard Dr. Pugh enter the room, call in a stentorious voice for the “fiddle,” which when he obtained he broke to pieces. He several times called the occupant of the room (McAllister) a liar.    Sunday Oct. 6  Wrote to Annie and Decatur this morning, at Bible Class at 9 A.M. Read the Life of Antony in Plutarch’s Lives. No preaching. Walked down to the road with Fisher and Stone this evening. HAd an interesting conversation with Tom Roberts on the stone pile after dark. Dr. Pugh had in chapel an extract from the life of a German Agriculturalist, it was interesting----------  Oct. 7. This morning I took some old Reading Room papers into Dr. Pugh’s office to have them put away. The Dr. Embraced the opportunity to ask me to review a small work which is in his possession entitled “Every Farm his own
Chemist,” “Agricultural Chemistry,” &c. The author evidently was not well acquainted with his subject, and his work abounds in numerous errors. I have consented to make the review. I have but little time to employ on it, and will therefore emit my Laboratory work until I have finished it, which I hope will be in a few days. I read the greater part of the book today, and also some other authors on the same subject. McAllister left the School. He was not expelled, but left on account of the affair on Saturday night. Lobinger takes his place in the Thespian Corps. We have had considerable rain today.    Oct. 8  This was election day. Dr. Pugh was at Boalsburg this forenoon. We had no recitations at 10 O’clock the members from our class, Isett J. D., Miles, and Banks, went ever to [inve?] Swett were engaged today at the [Stewarts?] con[?] at 6 A.M. [unreadable text] The “Thespians” met… [unreadable text]  Oct 9  we went to bible class [unreadable text]
in Dr. Pugh’s office tonight. We examined my manuscript. some additions are to be made.  Oct. 10. Did not attend recitation at 11 O’clock. Finished my review. I have not been down yet to see if any corrections were to be made. took part in a game of forte-and-a-half this evening. It is not a very dignified game but it is good exercise. Was in Brenneman’s room a while tonight and afterwards in Tom Roberts’s. On coming to my own I found Don Parker and getting into an interesting conversation I did not study any. Don is a queer genius, very intelligent but will not study.     Oct 11. I was engaged this forenoon (till 10 o’clock) in study and research concerning my Anniversary Oration. Did not get anything written till after Society, when I wrote half a page. I presided in Society. The performances were longer than usual. There was an interesting but not very gentlemanly debate (?) between Kisterbock and Lobinger. The Thespian Corps rehearsed from 5 till 6 p.m. -----------------------------------------------------  Oct 12th. No recitations today. I was engaged nearly all forenoon at my Oration, but got very little done. By an ingenious arrangement I succeeded in heating some water at 11 O’clock and took an
ablution at 1 pm. I returned two books to the Library and procured two others. Went to the P.Office at 2. Received a bulk package from John. He says “I by request send enclosed two letters of Decatur’s, which after you have read, you will send by mail to father. They wish to preserve all of his letters.” The two letters were dated at “Camp Advance,” the first Oct. 2, the other Oct. 7th, each covering a full shut. The first was written to Marion. I would like to preserve a copy but have not time to make one. He opens with the departures of his regiment from Washington, which was on Friday before the letter was written (on Sept. 27). They marched 8 miles through wind rain, and mud, and afterwards spent the night on the ground without overcoats or blankets. The next day tents were put up. Decatur went out to make road and build a bridge. At 4 p.m. They were called to arms. and the next morning formed in line of battle. On Monday they marched towards Falls Church. That day he volunteered to go on pickett. He says “We went without our dinner, and supper till 10 o’clock next day. I was relieved after being out 24 hours.” There are but two regiments of Federal troops between him and the rebels but “mounted pickets patrol the country about 5 miles out.” He goes on to state how all the timber
is cut down that would interfere with the range of their guns. His letter is much more interesting than any I have ever read, for I never have read one from a brother under similar circumstances. The other letter contains nothing important. They occupy the same camp that they did when the former was written, and I suppose will having nothing of consequence until another move is made, and there may then be a great battle. More than half of this letter refers to affairs at home. Tonight I read a part of Goldsmith’s Memoir of Voltaire.-----------------------   Sunday Oct 13 Bible class this forenoon, and preaching this afternoon. While not attending these I was in my room, except a short time this forenoon, when I went to see Tom Roberts. He was packing his trunks, intending to leave school tomorrow. He, with Don parker, has applied for permission to enter, and for admission into, the Anderson Troop. They are going to Carlisle to see what the result might be. Both have just left my room (9p.m.) They had been in about an hour. Tom is to take a letter from me to Father, which I wrote tonight. I enclosed Decatur’s letters, and again request that I may be permitted to enlist. There is but little hope of a favorable answer. If it were not for mother I would go tomorrow ---------------------------
Oct. 14.  Tom and Don went at 9 am in the stage. I did what I could to assist Tom in pecuniary matters. There were many who regretted to see them leave. I was in Laboratory from 9 till 1 ½ am and from 2 till 4 ½ pm.-- A little before it we rehearsed. I am to take the part in which Tom Roberts appeared (Duke of Venice). Craig plays Portia, and Troutman and Brenneman take Solanio, Salanio, in addition to the other parts. I have prepared but little at my Oration, and what I had written I have discarded as being unsuitable as an opening. Recommenced my preparations tonight -------    Oct 15. In Laboratory from 9 till 12 am, and two hours this P.M. Our rehearsal was from 5 till 7. Received a letter from Father. He again positively refuses to allow me to go to the army, as I requested in my last letter. They received a letter from Decatur this morning. His regiment has changed position since I heard from him, and is the most advanced of the Army. The letter contained 10 dollars. Dr. Pugh detained us in chapel about an hour tonight, with some remarks concerning our speaking, study, &c. I had not the time to lose. My oration progresses very slowly-------------
Oct 16. Wetmore and Cole Watts went in the stage this morning. Both have been admitted into the Anderson troop. Nearly all of our class and part of the others were down to see them off. They go immediately to Carlisle. We did not recite at 11 O’clock. I was not at 1 o’clock recitations, but worked during that hour in the Laboratory. Came to my room at 2. Rehearsed from 4 ½ till 5 ½. Prof Wilson detained our class in chapel after prayers to see about completing in Logic. We will recommence it tomorrow, lessons to be recited from 2 till 3 p.m. Tonight I have been reading some, and also made a few notes for my orations.     Oct. 17  I was in my room till 11 am. Our Class met at two p.m. and had a lesson assigned in Logic. Read the news till 2. The Programmes and Invitations for our Society came by stage. They are printed in pretty good style. The page containing the Invitation is brouged. Our Society met at 3 p.m. and most arrangements for having them distributed are paid for. I procured mine this evening, there being only eleven for each member, I succeeded through the kindness of Fred Watts in getting a few additional ones. Did not do much tonight.    Oct. 18  Today another student left the school. Harry Isett [section missing] here, but intends
going in a few days to the Anderson Troop (not the Sherman Troop) There were a number of students at the stage when he started. We recited Logic at 2 p.m. Stayed in the Reading Room (something new) a short time this evening, After supper went down to the store, and brought up a lot of chestnuts. Presided in Society. We assembled at 7 this evening. Performances were tolerably interesting. After it had closed the Thespian Corps rehearsed in the Society Hall.   Oct. 19 Did not attend recitation at 11. Went to the store and purchased material for my costume in Anniversary. Made a crow [section missing] for the Duke, and worked a little at Knee-breeches. Received a long letter from Decatur. It contained nothing further than what was in the letters sent my from home. Our Programmes of Theatrical performance came this evening. They are poorly done, Painted at Bellefonte. Tonight I have been enclosing Invitations, and I directing them to my friends. I am nineteen years old today.  Oct 20 (Sunday) Was at Bible Class today. No preaching this afternoon. Did not attend prayers this evening. In my room all day.   Oct. 21. I was in my room from 6 till 11 A.M. then went down stairs and made some preparations for commencing
quantitation analysis. Did not attend any recitations this afternoon. Tonight the Thespian Corps rehearsed in Costume. Profs Wilson and Baker were present. The former criticized us some.  Oct. 22. No recitation at 11, nor at 2. Went down to store when the mail arrived, Received a package from home containing some clothing. In my room during other parts of the day. My oration is yet to be written, and I have not been able to accomplish much. I will probably succeed better when the time approaches nearer in which it is needed. This with me is a great incentive to exertion.    Oct 23. Was excused from recitations this afternoon to assist in scrubbing the chapel. I was down for an hour or so after 2. Prayers were held in the upper recitation room.  Oct 24. The committee of Arrangements have been getting the chapel ready today for the Anniversary. But one recitation today which was at 1 o’clock. Received a short letter from Father stating that Mother & Mary Jane would probably be here tomorrow. It was late when I went to bed last night, and the consequence was that I (nor Craig either) did not get awake in time for breakfast this morning. Wrote at my Oration tonight.
Oct 25th. We had our last rehearsal after dinner. At two o’clock I took the furniture from my room, and scrubbed it a little. About 6 Mother Mary Jane and Lizzie came. I wrote some of my oration after supper. The exercise of our Anniversary Commenced at 7.Opened with prayer by Dr. Pugh. C.E. Troutman’s oration was delivered. It was pretty well written and well delivered. Stoners Oration, although good, does not do him much credit, as nearly all of it was taken from other sources than his own brain. Smith’s Essay was good. The Poem by Fisher was read well. Brenneman’s Oration was on a historical subject - “The wars of the Crescent” and although not admitting of much display was pretty good. I came next. I had not studied mine enough to deliver it well. I stopped in the middle of it. The play was next performed. We got through with it admirably. After the close of the performances I went to Stewarts and got the carriage ready for our folks to go, & they will go as far as Penn’s Grove tonight. While waiting at Stewarts I read a letter of five pages fooslcap from Decatur, which Mother brought with her.  Oct 26 Stayed (in my room) and read “She stoops to conquer” this forenoon. Returned my book to the Library and brought out Addison’s “Poems and Dramas.” Miss Annie
Isett and Sue Rhule, who came from S. Creek yesterday were here today. I went with them around the building, and to see all that [is] worth showing to visitors. Went to Reading Room at 2 ½ p.m. and after reading news I commenced Cato.” Find it very pleasing. Read till from compelled to discontinue for want of light. Finished it tonight, and then read some more of Addison’s works.  Oct 27.--  This morning Kisterbock and Stoner came to my rom to look at the tragedy, Cato. We had concluded to learn it. The characters are all [?] We had Bible Class and Preaching - This afternoon I copied Scenes I, II, & III, Act 1 of Cato. I intend copying the whole play.-------------------------------------------------  Oct 28--  Attended all recitations today. Copied two more scenes of Cato. Was in the Laboratory but did not work any. The Reading Room Association met at 5 P.m. The business related to the Standing committee. Last week Church unlocked the door without permission from the President (Eckman) and was fined one dollar. In order to have revenge he reported to committee (By wom all charges against officers are decided) that the President and Janitor had not fulfilled all that is required of them by the Constitution. The Committee did not consider the report, and the meeting [section missing] called to consider the
case of the committee. Nothing or very little in regard to the business for which we met was done, but the whole time was occupied in wrangling. Church and I had some rough conversation. The Committee met tonight. I was not present, but believe that the only fines imposed were one of 25 cts on Church for swearing, and one of the same amount on Eckman for the same offence.   Oct 29. Copied scene IV of Act I, and Scene I of Act II today. Went into Reading Room after breakfast, and arranged matters then. I took charge of the mails today. I am required to take them to the P.P one hour before mail time, and bring them again from P.P. after stage comes, and distribute the letters to students at 5 pm Our R.R. Association met again this evening. It appears that I was fined $1, by the committee last night, but have not been regularly notified of the fact - A motion was made that the fineing which had been done in the last week be annulled. I opposed this. The Committee of officers met in Holliday’s room tonight.  Oct 30th. This morning I wrote scene I and tonight Scene II. Went to the laboratory at 9 a.m. and was engaged till 2 p.m. did not attend recitations. In R. Room from 5 till 6. Went to see Dr. Pugh after prayers concerning dissertation. He desires me to take Grasses as my subject----
Tonight I read half of Ovid’s Metamorphoses (Addison’s translation). Find them very interesting.  Oct. 31. Read some more of the “Metamorphoses” this morning. Commenced quantitative analyses at 9 am. Went for the mail at 2 p.m. and worked in Lab till 5. Was in Reading Room till 6. I declaimed in Chapel tonight. My piece was Sempronius to the Roman Senate. Learned it today. Was very well satisfied with performance. Tonight Stones, Isett, and some others have been in my room arranging matters for the tragedy, Cato.    November 1, 1861.   Went to the Laboratory at 6 a.m. and worked till 7. Studied till 8, and worked till 12 in Lab. Was in Lab from 3 till 5 P.m. About 5 I was both surprised and pleased to be visited by Miss Jennie Ryman, Miss Sella and Miss McCoy, and Isaac Mitchell. They remained here till about 5 or 6 and then went to a friends below Centre Furnace tonight. J.D. Isett, Kisterbock, Fisher, and I went down to see them. We of course enjoyed ourselves. Most certainly I did. When we started for school it was raining slightly - but we did not get very wet. It was 2 o’clock when we got here.     Nov. 2.-- Went to Lab at 9.
Recited Mineralogy at 11. Swept R. Room after dinner. Got Plutarch’s Lives from Library. Read part of the Life of Cato  the Younger. Took the mail to the P.O at 1 - and remained there till 2. After opening R. Room I enjoyed a short sleep. Tonight Craig and Sanderson cooked a chicken, and brought it to our room. It was excellent. It has been raining nearly all day. The wind has been very high. The day has been the most disagreeable that we have had this fall.  Sunday, Nov. 3. Bible Class at 8 ½ am. Was in my room the greater part of the day. I read “The Drummer,” a comedy by Addison, and finished Ovid’s Metamorphoses. About 3 p.m. I went down to see Isaac Mitchell at the Store. He came up with me and staid a while. Rev. Fields conducted Episcopal service tonight.  Nov. 4. I took the mail to the P.O. at 8 and staid with Ike till 9. Did not do much between that and 11. I wrote a note to Dr. Pugh requesting him to announce that the Cresson and Washington Societies would meet in their respective halls at 5 p.m. It was signed by Brown, Pres. C.L.S. and myself. Pres of W.A.L.S. The societies met at the time. I stated the object of the meeting, which
was to consider the propriety of holding a meeting at the close of the session, in conjunction with the Cresson Society - a motion was passed that such a meeting be held. A committee was appointed to acquaint the Cresson, which was then in session upstairs, of our action, but before our committee had left the room, a similar one came to inform us that the Cresson would participate in the affair. Another committee was then appointed to confer with me from the other Society on the plan of holding the meeting. Adjourned. Tonight I read some in Plutarch’s lives. I went to Alexander’s room at 9 ½ to see what the committees had done. There are to be four orations, two from each Society, and a play. To decide which Society should have the valedictory, they drew lots and it fell to the Cresson. I have been proposed to deliver the Salutatory. Fisher commenced some of his tricks tonight. He was however well repaid. Alexander, Stover, Harvey, Craig, and I were in the hall till nearly 11.  Nov. 5th  Worked in Lab 5 hours. Attended to the distributing of the mail at 5 O’clock. Was not at 1 O’clock recitation. I was in Fisher’s room for one hour or so tonight.
Nov. 6. Raining this morning. Went at 9 am to the Barn with Dr. ugh to get a substance for analysis. Wm Craig, my roommate, left the Institution at 10 with the stage. I went down to the store at 9 ½ to see him, and was quite sorry that he was leaving us. I found him always agreeable, and in all respects a good roommate. Was not at 11 o’c recitation. We did not recite Logic. Worked in Lab from two till five and then went down to see ISaac Mitchell. Did not study much tonight. I have made out the following method for employing my time (until circumstances lead me to change it) to be put into operation tomorrow evening. After prayers, study all lessons for the next day, and write at dissertation. Until 9 o’clock, am write at Oration from 9 am till 7 pm work in Laboratory, attend recitations, and to the Reading Room. At a meeting of those who are to take part in the play which is now being rehearsed, which was held after dinner, I at my own request, was not included in the performance.  Nov. 7. It seems quite strange to be alone in my room. I was at chemical work all forenoon. Went down to the store at 2 pm. Commenced my plan, which I made out today
Nov. 8. We had but one recitation today. In Mechanics we have gone as far as we thought practicable, and will now review. I resigned my office in Society tonight. Stones was elected. I was chosen to deliver the Salutatory address at the joint meeting at the close of the session.---------------------------------------    Nov. 9. Was in my room all forenoon, not doing much of anything. Took the mail down at one, and remained at P.O. till two. Brought Vol. 11 of Lamb’s works from the Library.  Sunday, Nov. 10 --  Bible Class this morning. Wrote to Marion, and to Annie before dinner. Did not attend Church. Wrote to Decatur and to J.A. Young this afternoon. Dr. Pugh read a long uninteresting sermon in Chapel tonight.  Nov. 11. At breakfast Prof Wilson informed us that it would be necessary for all to work at the corn husking. We went to the S.W. corn field about 7, worked very diligently until 10 o’c. when we were driven in by a heavy shower. At 11 we were called to recite Mineralogy. After dinner we were again ordered to the corn field. The wind was pretty high. I came in a little after 5. Prepared myself
for supper, and sat down to rest. Went to sleep. Tonight I am not very well. Did not study any--  Nov. 12-- We put in a full day in the corn field. McCormick, Lynn Troutman, Smith and I worked together. The day was pleasanter than yesterday. I worked till 5 p.m. when I left the field. There was a general call for me to “come back” but I did not do so. In less than ten minutes however I was followed by nearly all. I did not feel like studying tonight.  Nov. 13.   We were again in the field by 7 am. We kept hard at work till nearly 12, which finished the field. This afternoon I washed. Was not at recitation.  Nov. 14. This morning the Senior class was released from further work during the session. I went to the Laboratory at 10 am. At 1 pm we recited a review lesson of over 30 pages in Mechanics. After bringing the mail, I read the papers for an hour, then worked in the Lab. Was down at the store a short time this evening. I have been reviewing Logic tonight, preparatory to examination. Prof Wilson went away today, and will examine us as soon as he returns, which will be on Tuesday or Wednesday.
Nov. 15. The ground was covered with snow this morning, and it was still snowing when we went to breakfast. This is the first that has fallen this autumn. Went to the Laboratory at 9 am and was there a while this afternoon also, but did not do much. We finished Mineralogy today. After dinner there was a combat at W end of the building between Brenneman and Kisterbock. It was however more amusing than serious. There was an old “feud” between them. It had for some time lain dormant. It was today stirred up by Brenneman, who accidentally put his foot on K’s, the two foes being seated at opposite sides of the table. A challenge emanated from K, and they with backers left the dining room, but after they got out, they mutually concluded to postpone the battle, and returned to their meal. This created considerable merriment, and not a little were they ridiculed. As soon as dinner was over they decided to settle the dispute, and went at each other, not however as if either was anxious to injure his antagonist. There were many to witness the fight. Dr. Pugh saw a part of it, and his presence soon caused a cessation of hostilities. Both I suppose were
grateful to the Doctor for his interference, as they appeared satisfied to quit.----- In Society tonight I spoke extemporaneously on “The achievements of the American People.” The performances were not very lengthy. Anonymous papers would have been better had they not been quite so personal. Natural defects were made too much the topics of the different papers. I was happy to escape from the scurrility of the writer. Perhaps it was only because that Nature has made me physically less defective than she has some others.   Nov. 16. I did a little writing this morning. Was informed at 7 o’clock am that we were to recite Mechanics at 11, our lesson being a review of twenty seven pages. Not having attended the lesson before, I had it to look over - which required some time. Took the mail down at 1 and did not come up till after the stage arrived, at 2. Read papers until near 6. I returned books to the Library and brought out “American Eloquence” Vol. 1. In Hart’s room tonight a number of students (all of the Junior Class and some others) assembled to partake of some very fine eatables. The day has been very cold- wind high. My room is uncomfortable.
Sunday, Nov. 17. The air today has not been so cold as it was yesterday. I was in my room till nearly 11 am. Rev. Barnard preached at 11. No Bible Class. Was [not] engaged at anything particularly this afternoon. Slept a short time. Dr. Pugh did not detain so long in chapel tonight as he usually does. He read a short extract from a newspaper. I have been reading some tonight.  Nov. 18. Worked in the Laboratory from 9 till 12. Had the toothache this afternoon. Went to the store at 2 and did not come up till fie. Tonight I sat down to review zoology, but my tooth pains too much for study. I must go to bed.  Nov 19. This morning the left side of my face was very much swollen. I did not go to breakfast. It had however ceased aching. I was in the Laboratory nearly all forenoon. Did not attend recitation. This afternoon and tonight I have had both toothache and headache.-----  Nov. 20. Went to the Laboratory at 7 am, having before that time swept the hall in this story, and brought the mail from the P.O. J.D. Isett and I are sweepers this week. The mail from Bellefonte passes now about daybreak. Was in Lab this afternoon.
I am not well tonight. My face is still very much swollen. It is now about 7, but I must retire-------------------------  Nov. 21. Was not out of my room today till 4 p.m. J.D. Isett brought my breakfast and dinner up. Our class had two recitations, but I was not at either. My face is very sore. I received a lengthy letter from Marion. He is now in Spruce Creek, and has been there for two weeks. He says that they had a letter from Decatur about a week ago. “He is in good health and spirits.” The examination of our class in Mechanics was held tonight. We commenced at 6 ½ and quit at 11 ½. The Faculty were present. I had three propositions, and was entirely successful in all. There were but one or two of the class who did not get along well. I was very tired before we were finished----------------  Nov. 22. My whole face is now swollen. I have been unable to do anything today, was not at recitations, and did not work in Lab. Could not attend society tonight.--------------------  Nov. 23. I have been suffering very much. Did not do anything but go through the building. Tonight Dr. Pugh came up. I inhaled some ether. It relieved me, but made me quite boisterous. I kicked the plastering
off my wall in several places. Prof. Baker, J.D. Isett, and several other of the students were in. They appeared to enjoy the affair as much as I did myself------------  Sunday Sept. 24. I attended neither Bible Class nor preaching today. Staid in my room. My face is a great deal better. The swelling has considerably lessened. This afternoon I read in the Life of Napoleon, his Exile to St. Helena.----------------------------------------------------------  Sept.[sic] 25. We were examined in zoology today. The whole day was occupied and the examination is still unfinished. It was commenced about 7 a.m. Two of the class were called to PRof. Whitman’s room. A number of questions were written out and from these each drew four and wrote out the answers. The questions were so put as to embrace a considerable extent. When one had finished another was called for. I went down about 5 p.m. and finished after supper. I wrote about four pages.  Nov. 26. Went with my books to Holliday's room this morning, and what studying I did today was done there. My room is too cold to stay in. I commenced to look at authorities on the subject of Grasses, this being
the first of my researches relative to my Dissertation. Was at recitations. The class is now reviewing Calculus, and Logic - worked in the Lab after 3 p.m. In chapel this evening Dr. Pugh read an extract from a letter which he received from a man in England, to give us an idea of how ignorant the English generally are of American affairs. He read also from a newspaper a speech made by Mr. Train, an American at a dinner in London. The speaker appeared to be quite angry with the British, and his manner was such as would scarcely be tolerated in a promiscuous assembly. As it was he was interrupted; and he changed the course of his remarks. This was done in a way which we might fear would injury the force of the previous part of the speech.   Nov. 27. Staid in my 95 with Holliday today. Was in the Laboratory a short time before noon and from three till half after four pm. Wrote three letters tonight, one covering a page of foolscap to Father, one of two pages to Decatur, and one of the same length to Marion.  Nov. 28. This was thanksgiving day. Our class recited Calculus at 10 am. Had no recitation in Logic. We had dinner at 2 ½ pm. It was
somewhat more extensive than our dinners generally are. The Turkeys were excellent, and we had plenty of them. I went to the store at 3 and stayed till the mail arrived. Brought up the papers, and read till about 5. I weighed myself today - weight= 135 ½ which [is] over a pound less than I weighed this time last year.   Nov. 29. Studied all forenoon. Recited Mathematics from 1 till 2 p.m. Our class was examined in Logic. Commenced at 2 and got out at 4. This was not a rigid examination. IT appears to have been held merely for the sake of adhering to the form. Our Society met this evening. It was the regular meeting for elections. Fisher was elected PResident. I made several nominations. The members all being (and having been) very busy in examinations &c we adjourned without a regular performance. I intended to study tonight but have not done so.-----   Nov. 30. This forenoon I was engaged most of the time in reviewing Calculus. I could not content myself at this, but went to the Reading Room and read some old papers. Our class today set aside the old custom of not doing anything on Saturday afternoon. We recited Calculus at 1 and were examined in it at 3. It required about two hours for the latter. Profs. Baker,
Whitman and Wilson were present- I was up three times and could not have wished to succeed better than I did. There was but one in the class (Smith) who made a failure. Prof Wilson expressed his pleasure on account of excellent manner in which the examination passed off. Prof. Baker was gratified not only because the examinations were good, but also that all of the Class had conducted themselves properly while under his charge. I received a letter from Annie, It is a much nicer one than I had supposed she could write. She gives me all the Spruce Creek news - They had a letter from Decatur yesterday. His regiment occupies the same position that it did. They will probably remain there this winter. Log huts are now being put up by them. The ground was covered with snow this morning. It nearly all disappeared today. Quite cold tonight.  Sunday, Dec. 1, 1861. Attended Bible Class at 9 a.m. There was no preaching. I was not down at prayers this evening. Wrote to Annie and to Prof. S.W. Johnson, of Yale. It has snowed nearly all day.  Dec. 2. Lodged in Fisher’s room today. He went to Bellefonte this afternoon. I worked in the Laboratory about three hours today, and this afternoon I was engaged some time in
calculating the results of my analysis. Went to Dr. Pugh tonight, and he put me to making further calculations. Commenced tonight to collect the substance of an Orations-----------------------------------  Dec. 3. I was in Fisher’s room all of today, except a short time this forenoon while finishing up my Laboratory work. Was engaged on my Oration the greater part of the time.------------------  Dec. 4. The invitations and programmes for our “Farewell Exercises” came today. They are rather neat for Bellefonte printing. I received a letter from Miss Sella McCoy, giving a most pressing invitation to go down on Saturday. The Washington Society met after dinner to distribute programmes. I enclosed mine tonight, and wrote a short letter to Decatur.   Dec. 5. I was in F’s room during the day, but in my roomtonight, not being as cold as it was. I wrote a very brief reply to Miss Stella McC - ‘s note. Letters were received from Decatur & Tom Roberts. There is no intelligence of importance from the 49th, but it appears that others have had some sharp work. Tom is in Carlisle, and I suppose not doing much of anything. The Anderson Troop left that place on Monday for Kentucky. I was with Dr. Pugh for an hour tonight on business
Dec 6. Went to Fisher’s this morning. Read some from the newspapers, and then got to work at my Oration. I came to my room at 10 a.. and staid during the day. Society met tonight. The new officers took their seats - and the Secretary being absent I was appointed pro term. After transacting a little business we adjourned.  Sunday Dec. 8.  I returned this afternoon from Bellefonte, having gone over yesterday. I went on horse procured from Wm. Foster and in company with Isaac Mitchell. We did not start till dark (about 5) and reached Bellefonte after 8. It was rather a cool ride, in the night air. We took some oysters, and then went to the McCoy’s. We found there, besides the Misses McCoy, Miss Jennie Ryman, and her cousin, and two gentlemen. With such a party we could scarcely fail to enjoy ourselves. But the really pleasant time was after the “gentlemen” had left (i.e. for me at least), Isaac and I did not get to bed till 4 this morning. We were up again at 8, however, and at 11 attended service in the Presbyterian Church. Rev. Lym preached. I started from B. at 1 ½ p.m. and arrived here at quarter after four. Riding today was very pleasant. The weather in summer time could scarcely be more agreeable. Isaac is coming out tomorrow.--------------------------------
Dec. 9.  Was in my room engaged at Oration till 5 p.m. Went down to the store, and staid a short time. in my room tonight.   Dec. 10.  All that I did today was to stay in my room, and although I spent nearly all the time at my oration I accomplished but little. The weather is warm - too much so for pleasant study. I went down to the P.O. when the mail arrived. Received a letter from Father, containing $20. I paid about $6 of debts. Mother is not well. She has Neuralgia of the breast and side. The physician is attending her.--------------  Dec. 11. I have consented to perform the part of chief Mutineer in the Tragedy of Cato. The part is short, the character easily performed, but requires some preparations in the way of costume. I am now having  some of my armor made. The weather is cooler today, in fact, it is quite cold out. I have been in nearly all day - was up at Troxell’s and down at the store.  Dec. 12. Commenced writing my dissertation today. Subject, grasses. Not a very interesting piece of work. I got my spear after dinner, and painted it. I purchased a new pair of pants this evening. Received a letter from J.  Saw, requesting me to secure him a load of students to take to S. Creek and one from S.W. Johnson of Yale.
Dec. 13. Wrote today at my Dissertation. This evening I copied the minutes of the last three meetings of our Society into the Secretary’s book. A special meeting was called tonight. I was again appointed Secry. The proceedings were not very important. Three new members were received and Anon. read.   Dec. 14. This morning, on consulting with Dr. Pugh, I concluded to defer the further writing of my dissertation till after I went home. I have been preparing my costume this afternoon. Scarcely anything is thought of now, but on closing exercises. All are busy preparing. We rehearsed tonight.-------------------------------    Sunday Dec. 15. Rev. Barnard preached at 11 a.m. but I did not attend. Tonight I wrote to Father, and John.   Dec. 16. I have been very busy today. Making costume, and packing up my “personal property.” This “breaking up housekeeping” raises some excitement. The shaving club met in Holliday’s room. We had a treat from Isett and Eckman. I was called away to rehearsal. The play is now ready for performance, and sufficient interest is taken in it to make it succeed.---------------------------------    Spruce Creek  Wednesday Dec. 18th  This morning about 5 o’clock I reached home. Nearly all
day of yesterday I was busy. I did not finish my oration till this morning. We sent our baggage after dinner. This afternoon I finished my costume, and all other preparations for the “Farewell Exercises.” Fisher, Alexander, and I went to the Barn and rehearsed our Orations. The Misses McCoy and Jennie Ryman came pretty early in the evening.  I went to the parlor to see them, and found there a great number of ladies. About 7 p.m. the exercises opened with music by the Boalsburg Brass Band. Prayers by Prof Wilson. I delivered my Salutatory in a satisfactory manner. Alexander’s Oration was good but the large audience discomposed him slightly. Fisher went through with his oration, but he spoke in an unnatural voice and had not committed it quite well enough.   The tragedy was waited for with interest. It took a few minutes for us to get ready. The whole play was gone through with without an error. It elicited applause in several places - and the interest of the audience appeared to be kept up during the whole time. It required about three hours to complete it. The Valedictory by McCormick was very good. It closed at 11 o’clock - The Tragedians went to the parlor in costume, and I took some friends to the
without a change of apparel. I returned to the parlor. We had supper about an hour after. At half after twelve we were ready to start. There were four or five wagons to go - they got rather too close to each other, and ours, containing the Seniors met with an accident which detained us twenty minutes. The night was beautiful. Very moonlight and not cold. The ride was pleasant. We reached here just as day was breaking. I got breakfast, and went to see the rest off. The train was behind time, and there was great excitement when it arrived. Baggage rather roughly used. This forenoon I unpacked and put away my things - I visited Porters this evening, and tonight was tin the P.O.-------------------------------------------------------  Dec. 19. This morning I took charge of the Post Office. Nearly all day engaged in copying accounts. Wrote a letter tonight to the P.M. at Phila on P.O. business. Was up at Rhules till 9--------------------------------------------  Dec. 20. Today made out all the mails. Wrote to Decatur and Tom Roberts. This evening a great member of Farm School Catalogues passed through the office. Commenced reading the “Defense of Armageddon.” Received letter from Lizzie, John is very sick. Letter from Wm.
Craig, my old chum. He is teaching school in Lehigh Co.    Monday Sept.[sic] 23, 1861  I have had charge of affairs myself today. Father went to Pine Grove yesterday to see John. He returned this evening. The train today coming E. did not arrive till nearly dark. I was up at Rhule’s a short time this evening----------------------   Wednesday Dec. 25.  We have had a quiet Christmas. Some sleighs have been running, the snow having fallen last night. We received a letter from Decatur this morning. He is in good health, but kept very busy. He does most of the business of his Company. I had a letter from Marion. Answered both tonight. A roll of F.H.S. catalogues came for me this evening. Porters took dinner with us. Annie, Alma, and Warren have had a great many presents. Lizzie sent them a box full by the stage. I got ready to go to Huntingdon this morning, but staid at the house too long and missed the train. There is a wedding in town tonight, Father is at it.
Wednesday, Jan 1st 1862  Yesterday morning I went to Huntingdon. Was with Marion, at his office, all day, and at night attended a party at Matterns. It was a very pleasant affair. This forenoon I [was] at the office a while and at the billiard saloon. After dinner played several games of billiards, called on Mrs. Steel, Miss Jennie Kessler, & Miss Hildebrand, Miss Benedict, and Miss Campbell. Marion came along up tonight. We worked some at the P.O. reports. I brought a law book (Blackstone's Commentaries) which I intend studying. Received a letter and a copy of the Farmer and Gardener from Dr. Pugh. The latter contains a reply from Job Roberts to my article in the Nov. No. Dr Pugh desires me to respond.  Jan. 2.-- We finished the reports - Marion having done the greater part of it. I read about thirty three pages of the law.   Jan 3. I read ~ 2 of Blackstone, and took numerous notes. Was at the book all the time while not making up the mails.   Jan 6. Wrote a reply to Job Roberts. It covers five pages of foolscap. Sent it to Dr. Pugh
for examination and correction. Wrote to R.M. Speer asking to be admitted into his office as a law student.
M.S. Lytle
But how stands Cato?  ___  Thou hast seen Mount Atlas   While storms and tempests thunder oer its  brows  And Oceans break their billows at its  feet  It stands unmoved and glorious   in its height  Such is that haughty man; his  towering soul  ‘Midst all the shocks and in-  juries of fortune  Rises superior, and looks down on   Caesar  Cato - Act II - Scene VI
