Transcript

Volume 7
75    Milton S. Lytle  Q.M.D.  Headquarters 12th Army Corps  Spruce Creek  Huntingdon Co.  Penna.
Headquarters, 12th Corps,   Army of the Potomac,   Near Kelly’s Ford, Va.    -------------------------------------    1863, September, Monday, 7th.   Went to Washington. Left Hd. Qrs. at 6 a.m. From Bealeton by cars to Alexandria, from thence by boat. Arrived in W. at 3 p.m.    Tuesday, 8th.  Obtained checks from paymasters on rolls of Col. Hopkins, LT. Binney, Dr. Bennett, Capt. Tracy & Clks, at Hd. Qrs. Had the checks cashed at Treasy. Dept. this p.m.
September  Wednesday 9th  Rep’d to Hd Qrs. Arrived 4 p.m.    Friday, 11th.  Finished reading Draper’s “Intellectual Development of Europe” Commenced Mill’s “Liberty.” There are some movements of troops going on. The 2nd Corps has left its camp between this and Bealton.    Sunday, 13th.  Some Arty. firing today. Genl. Kilpatrick’s Division (Cavalry) crossed at K - Ford. Some prisoners have been captured.    Wednesday 16th  Commenced the move that we have been expecting for some time. The troops of the Corps were concentrated near the Ford yesterday. The crossing of the Rappahannock commenced at 5 o’clock this a.m. Hd. Qrs. moved at 9. Marched nine miles, Camped tonight
at Stevensburg. There was some cannonading today, probably at the Rapidan. The Army lies between this and Culpepper.     Thursday, 17th  The 1st Division took the advance at daylight. Marched for the Rapidan, Reached the river at 9 a.m. The troops were placed under cover of the woods. Firing was going on between our pickets and the Rebels across the river. Hd. Qrs. are near Raccoon Ford tonight. Pony Mt. is three miles to our right. O the latter is a signal station.    Near Raccoon Ford, Va.  The signal party of this Corps is busy tonight with torches and blue rockets.  This evening a large body of cavalry passed going towards Culpepper or Rapidan Station.    Friday, 18th  Three deserters were shot this afternoon, one in 1st Div. and two in the 2nd. Very little Arty firing today.    Saturday, 19th.  A dull cloudy day; air cool, ground mellow. We were all alarmed
September  this evening by raid musket firing North of our camp. Supposed to be a fight; but proved to be Kilpatrick’s Cavalry firing off their pieces.     Sunday 20  Cold morning. All quiet.    Monday, 21st.  Everything continues quiet. Had onions, beets, and sweet potatoes for dinner. Doc left Hd. Qrs.     Tuesday 22nd.  Heavy Arty. firing S.W. Cause not known here. Preparations are being made for another move. Eight days rations issued.    Wednesday 23rd  Sir Henry Holland was here today. News received of a great battle in N. Geo. Rosecrans defeated. Bragg’s Army had been reinforced from Va.    Thursday 24  At Brandy Station, Va. Orders to move from the Rapid Ann road at 12 M. Troops started at 2 p.m. and Hd. Qrs. at 4. Arrived before dark.
Friday 25th  Transportation of Corps turned in to Q.M. Dept at Depot. Other preparations made for a long journey. We go by rail tomorrow.    Saturday 26th  At Bealeton Station. Troops marched from Brandy S. this morning. Genl. & Staff gone to Washington. Clerks, baggage, &c came up on train this afternoon. Several brigades have been shipped.    The 11th & 12th Corps are under Hooker’s command and are going to Tennessee. Gen. Slocum is dissatisfied.    Sunday, 27th.  Troops have been sent off rapidly today The 1st Div. is all gone. 1st & 2nd Brigs. of second Div. got away this afternoon.     Monday 28  Came to Alexandria on first train and to Washington this afternoon.
Tuesday 29  At 9 last night found Hd. Qrs. train standing on track one mile below Washington. Started west about midnight. Were at Mariotsville at daybreak this morning. Got dinner (bread & coffee furnished by Gov’t) at Martinsburg.    Wednesday 30  At Belleaire [sic], Ohio, Arrived at 8 p.m. Crossed the river from Benwood.    October.  Wednesday, 1st,   Staid in Belleaire [sic].     Tuesday, 6th  Arrived at Murfreesboro, Tenn.    Wednesday, 14th  Moved Hd. Qrs. to Wartrace, a R.R. Station 55 miles S. of Nashville.
Monday 19th.  The Corps in the “Army of the Cumberland.”    Wednesday 21.  The Dept. of the Cumberland (Rosecran’s [sic] Army) and the Dept. of the Ohio (Burnside’s Army) have been added to Gen. Grant’s Command. Genl. G. passed today on the train going South. Saw him standing in the car door. He is a small man with nothing unusual in his appearance and uses a crutch at present.    Milton S. Lytle  Headquarters  12th Army Corps
November  Friday 6th  Waited at Wartrace Depot from 9 a.m. till 1 p.m. to ship Q. M. Stores. Got them aboard train, and laid over two hours for other trains to pass. Passed Normandy at dark.    Saturday 7.  Arrived at Stevenson, Ala. in latter part of the night. Breakfast 75 chs[?] Started for Bridgeport at 9 a.m. About three hours in going 11 miles. Delivered stores to Surg. Goodman, and ret’d to Stevenson.     Sunday 8.  Train off track at Christiana. No trains going north today, A dull day in Stevenson.    Monday 9.  Slept in car last night so as to be sure to be aboard when train started. From S. at 3 a.m. Overtaken by passenger train at Cowan, Got on it, and arrived at Wartrace 1 p.m.
Tuesday 12.  Went to Tullahoma in charge of public property. Head Quaters moved to Murfreesboro.    Friday 13th  Started on return for Head Quarters. Detained at Christiana by a railroad accident.    Saturday 14th  Left Christiana at daylight. At Murfreesboro, 8 a.m. Went to Nashville this afternoon with Q.M. property for Lt. Steiner.    Sunday 15th  Rode through the city with Clay Hammond. Am staying with Q.M. D. 12th A.C.     Monday 16th  Left N[ashville] with train at 7 am. At Hd. Qrs. by dinnertime. Was delayed two hours on the road by another accident. Freight train off track.
Tuesday 17th  Fire in town last night. Was aroused at ‘the dead hour.’ A frame building occupied by contrabands burned down.    Wednesday 18th  Moved HD. Qrs from Murfreesboro. We go to Tullahoma by order of Gen. Hooker. Left M. at 10 a.m. via Shelbyville turnpike. Traveled 19 miles and camped for the night. PAssed a division of Cavalry on the road.     Tullahoma, Tenn. Thursday 19th.  Up early and had breakfast before daybreak. Started from camp at 6 a.m. Reached Shelbyville at 10. From there to this place had the roughest of roads. Got here at dark. Headquarters established in a white frame house, having but one story, so there is scarcely room for all.    Friday 20th.  Officers placed in the large hall running through the house. Looks very business-like. Cool, cloudy, and some rain.
Saturday, 21st.  Clouds and rain. Disagreeable day. Business dull at Hd. Qrs.     Memoranda on house in which Corps Hd. Qrs are at Tullahoma Tenn. “This house first occupied by the patriot Catron, followed by the white cravated rebel Polk. It was occupied by Genl. Polk and Staff from Nov. 7 to Nov. 19, 1862; by Genl Bragg & Staff from Jany 11 till March 27 1863; by Genl Rosecrans & Staff from July 1st to July 18th, 1863, Occupied by Gen. Slocum, Comdg. 12th corps, Nov. 19, 1863.”  Rebel troops from Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, and Arkansas have been here and left their marks.    Sunday, 22nd.  Part of the Staff moved their quarters leaving a room and house, clerks mess has taken the latter. Reported that a fight is going on at Chattanooga, that Bragg demanded the surrender of the place. No particulars. A clear sky and pleasant day.
Monday 23rd.  The room vacated yesterday was occupied today by Clerks, to be used for Office purposes. Rec’d letter from Decatur.    Tuesday, 24th,  Wrote a communication to Globe. Received letter from Marion, Rained in the morning but cleared off handsomely this evening. Commenced Monthly Transportation Report.    Wednesday 25th.  Received letter from Annie, Some preparations were made today in the way of turkey, &c. for our “thanksgiving” dinner tomorrow. The rumor of fighting at Chattanooga on the 22nd were not correct. A regiment of negro troops passed on the train from Nashville.     Thursday, 26th.  This was appointed by the President as a day of thanksgiving. It passed off without any
particular demonstration here. Very quiet at Hd. Qrs. owing. The Genl. and part of the staff are absent. Our mess had a very sumptuous dinner, quite as good as could be secured here.   Reported that our forces have gained great successes over Bragg. Have captured 38 pieces of artillery and 6000 prisoners, and have secured the advantage in position. Confirmation of this would be hailed with the greatest joy.    Train from N. late No papers received.    Friday, 27.  In a dispatch to Genl. Slocum the captures at Chattanooga are stated at 40 pieces of artillery and 10000 rebel prisoners. Gen. S. went to the front. Col. Hopkins gone to Shelbyville. In charge of his quarters while he is absent. Dr. McNulty, Med. Director, was badly injured yesterday by this falling of his horse. He is in Normandy in a critical condition.     Saturday, 28th.  A heavy thunder storm from the
SW last night. Roads muddy today. Wind comes from NW this evening. News from the front comes in but slowly, the latest reports state that the Chickamauga battle ground is in our possession, and that the rebel army is near Rome, Ga. The artillery taken up to the 26th, is fifty two pieces.    Sunday, 29th,  very cold this morning. Wind from the North, and snowing slightly when we got up - the first of the season. Was once or twice at Col. Hs. quarters. Keeps us hugging up to the fire to prevent freezing. No news from the front. Trains from Nashville did not arrive owing to a disaster on the railroad.    Monday, 30th.  Letters rec’d from father & Marion. Decatur has been ordered to his regiment. Many rumors flying today. 1st that the Army of the Potomac had captured Gordonsville. 2nd that Charleston had been set on fire by
Gillmore’s guns, & burned sixty three hours, 3rd, that the Rebel Wheeler with 6000 cavalry is threatening a raid on the R.R., that he is fifteen miles from this place, and may attack us. The troops are in readiness to occupy the forts & barricades if he comes.   Straitened [sic] up money accounts for the month, made copies of Sum. Statements for Q. M. Genl’s Office.    Farwell November.    December, 1863.  Tuesday, 1st.  Frost heavy this morning. Sun came up bright and warm, and the first day of Winter is more pleasant than the last days of Autumn. Wheeler and his rebels did not get around this way last night, So we were safely in bed this morning instead of being on our way Southward under charge of a squad of grayback Cavalry.   Nothing of importance from our Armies today. Finished Transportation report.
Wednesday, 2nd.  Made Estimate of Funds. Was at the Depot this Afternoon. Passenger train has been taken off the line. Was over at Col. Hs tonight, copying letter concerning misconduct of 5th Tenn. Cav. at Shelbyville.   5000 of Wheeler’s Men have been captured.     Thursday, 3rd.  Up late tonight, making Estimates of Q.M. Stores, and Camps & G. Equipage required in the Corps for the present month. Weather very pleasant. Just such weather as we have in early Autumn in Penna.    Friday, 4th.  Col. H. went to Nashville, Sent monthly papers with him. Was up early, and over to his quarters, as he expected to be off before 7 O'clock.   Prisoners were taken North in the cars today.    Saturday 5th.  Staid in Col. Hopkin’s room last night. Being cold towards morning, got up at daybreak, came to Office, made fire &
routed [sic] the boys up. Col. returned with afternoon train.  Received letter from Decatur, written Nov. 28th (Saturday.) He intended starting to his regiment on the next Monday.  My work in Office consisted in copying some letters tonight. Rained morning. Cleared up P.M. and the sky is bright again.  Some amusements today in shooting an owl near Hd. Qrs. The Genl. made one shot and missed; better as a commander than as a musketeer.    Tullahoma, December, 1863.  Sunday 6th.  Was not up till after the sun was two hours high. Went over to Col. Hs. before breakfast. Was at the depot on arrival of mail rain from the North. Rec’d no letters. The weather is most genial. Read some in Russell’s “Diary North and South.” Have been reading it for several days. the army of the Potomac has fallen back.    Monday 7th.  Col. H. went to Shelbyville. Wrote a letter to the “Globe.”
mail did not arrive till 9 p.m.  Hoffman and Mayer came, to remain only till tomorrow.   Stars dim tonight, Rain tomorrow.    Tuesday, 8.  Rained all day, Very muddy.   Had an official visit from the Inspector, of the Army of the Cumberland, concerning grain that lies at Decherd depot.    Wednesday 9.  Sun came out brightly this morning. Mud dried up considerably.   Col. H. returned this p.m.     Thursday 10th.  Dr. McNulty who is still in a dangerous condition, was brought down last night. Quietness being necessary in the room, Col. H. moved his quarters to the house occupied by Captain Whittelsey. This is the second move made by the Col. to accommodate
other people. He bears it as only a kind-hearted man would.   At Depot when mail arrived.    In Office I had some copying and letter writing to do, and was called by business to take several short walks.  Longstreet’s (rebel) corps has retreated from Knoxville, and is followed by Burnside’s and Sherman’s forces.  Rec’d catalogues of Columbia College Law School.    Friday 11th.  Col. went to Decherd.  Nothing to do in Office. President’s Message in today’s papers.    Saturday, 12th.   Official labor is as light at present as could be desired.  Took a ‘nap’ this p.m.  Read some in Mill’s Liberty.  A light rain this afternoon.
Sunday, 13th.  Was raining this morning and continued with but little intermission till late in the afternoon.  Had some business to attend to at the 10th. Mo. Batt., & the Escort, came in with wet feet.  Just at dark there was a bright spot in the Western sky, and I look for a clear day tomorrow.   In passing a contraband’s shanty this side of Col H’s., this a.m., I noticed that a religious meeting of the colored folks was going on. Did not stop to hear the sermon.    Monday 14th.  Col. H. went to Shelbyville.   Made a copy of last Transportation Report. No rain, but cold, with wind from the north, and cloudy. Went to Camp of 27th Ind. tonight to get transportation to Wartrace, being ordered there on business by Col H.
Tullahoma, Dec. 1863.  Tuesday, 15th.  Had breakfast this morning earlier than usual, and, as I afterwards found, earlier than necessary. Train came at 9 a.m. from the South. Arrived Wartrace just as Northern train came in sight. My business was completed in a few minutes, so that but little delay was required. Returned, arriving here at 12 M.  Nothing to do this afternoon.    Friday, 25th.  Christmas. This morning the usual greetings went round, but without any reason to anticipate a more than ordinarily “merry” time. The holidays this time have failed to bring their customary good things, and they are likely to go without leaving any marks of excessive gayety or festivity. They bring nothing to vary the barracks-like appearances of Tullahoma.
Tuesday 29.  Went out beyond the lines this morning in search of a gov’t wagon recently left on the road. Had with me a squad of men, went towards Shelbyville two miles and rode with Charley Day out on the by-roads and through the woods. Could not find wagon. Returned, and on inquiry learned that it had been brought in and was with Liet. Augustine’s train.  Was over at Post Q.M’s tonight to get R.R. transportation for Col. Hopkins--  Am going to stay with Dr. McNulty tonight.   The colored folks are to have a gay time at Hd. Qrs something on the style of their old times at Christmas, when they were slaves on the plantations.    Wednesday 30.  Staid last night with McNully, who is still very ill from the injury received on thanksgiving day. His brain is affected. Hoffman was also there but slept all night. I
was wide awake till five this morning, then slept till 7. Came to Headquarters and have done nothing today. Closed operations with a game of ‘Pitch’ tonight. Pop Clarkie, Rev, and Hoffman being around the board.     Tullahoma, Tenn.   Thursday, Dec. 31, 1863.  Made summary Statement for the month today -- Passed part of the night in playing Pitch. A heavy storm commenced at 5 p.m. and still continues. The wind comes in a tornado, as if to blow the old year out. Rained, and is now snowing.  Farewell, 1863.
[ newspaper clipping]    General Meade’s Official Report of the Battle of Gettysburg  [Special Dispatch to the New York Times.]  HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC   October 1, 1863.    GENERAL -- I have the honor to submit herewith a report of the operations of this army during the month of July, including details of the battle of Gettysburg. The report has been detained by my failure to receive the reports of the several corps and division commanders, who were severely wounded in the battle.   On the 28th of June, I received orders from the President, placing me in command of the army. The situation of affairs was, briefly, as follows: the Confederate army, commanded by General R. E. Lee, estimated at over one hundred thousand strong, all arms, had crossed the Potomac River, and advanced up the Cumberland Valley. Reliable intelligence placed his advance Ewell’s corps) on the Susquehanna, between Harrisburg and Columbia. Longstreet’s corps was at Chambersburg, and Hill’s corps between that place and Cashtown.   The 28th of June was spent in ascertaining the position and strength of the different corps of the army, but principally in bringing up cavalry, which ad been covering the rear of the army in its passage over the Potomac, and to which a large increase had just been made from the force previously attached to the defenses of WAshington. Orders were given on that day to make General French, commanding at Harper’s Ferry, move with 7,000 men to occupy Frederick and the line of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and the balance of his force estimated at 4,000, to remove and escort the public property to Washington.   On the 29th the army was put in motion, and on the evening of that day was in position, its left at Emmitsburg and its right at New Windsor. Buford’s division of cavalry was on the left flank, with its advance at Gettysburg. Kilpatrick’s division was in front at Hanover, where he encountered, this day, General Stuart’s Confederate cavalry, which had crossed the Potomac at Seneca Creek, and passing our right on its way toward Carlisle, having escaped Gregg’s division, which was delayed in taking its position on the right flank by the occupation of the roads by columns of infantry.
[newspaper clipping continued]     On the 30th, the right flank of the army was moved up to Manchester, the left still being at Emmitsburg, in the vicinity of which place three corps - the 1st, 11th, and 3d -- were collected, under orders of Major General Reynolds. General Buford having reported from Gettysburg the appearance of the enemy on the Cashtown Road, in some force, General Reynolds was directed to occupy Gettysburg. On reaching that place, on the 1st of July, General Reynolds found Buford’s cavalry warmly engaged with the enemy, who had debouched his infantry through the mountains on the Cashtown Road, but was being held in check in a most gallant manner by General Buford’s cavalry.   Major General Reynolds immediately moved around the town of Gettysburg, and advanced on the Cashtown Road, and without a moment’s hesitation deployed his advance division and attacked the enemy, at the same time sending orders for the 11th Corps (General Howard) to advance as promptly as possible. Soon after making his disposition for the attack, Major General Reynolds fell mortally wounded, the command of the 1st Corps devolving on Major General Doubleday, and the command of the field on Major General Howard, who arrived about this time (11:20 A.M.(, with the 11th Corps, then commanded by Major General Schurz. Major General Howard pushed forward two divisions of the 11th Corps to support the 1st Corps, now warmly engaged with the enemy on the ridge to the north of the town, and posted his third division, with three batteries of artillery, on Cemetery Ridge, on the south side of the town. Up to this time the battle had been with the forces of the enemy debouching from the mountains on the Cashtown Road, known to be Hill’s corps. In the early part of the action success was on our side - Wadsworth’s division of the 1st Corps having driven the enemy back some distance, and capturing numerous prisoners, among them General Archer, of the Confederate Army.    The arrival of reinforcements to the enemy on the Cashtown road, and the junction with Ewell’s corps, coming on the York and Harrisburg roads, which occurred between one and two o’clock P.M., enabled the enemy to bring vastly superior forces against both the 1st and 11th corps, outflanking our line of battle and pressing it so severely that at about four P.M Major General Howard deemed it prudent to withdraw these two corps to Cemetery Ridge, on the south side of the town, which operation was successfully accomplished - not, however, without considerable loss in prisoners, arising from the confusion incident to portions of both corps passing through the town and men getting confused in the streets.    About the time of withdrawal Major-General Hancock arrived, whom I had dispatched to represent me on the field on hearing of the death of General Reynolds. In conjunction with Major General Howard, General Hancock proceeded to post troops on Cemetery Ridge and to repel an attack that the enemy made on our right flank. This attack was not, however, very vigorous. The enemy, seeing the strength of the position occupied, seemed to be satisfied with the success he had accomplished, desisting from any further attack this day.   About 7 P.M., Major Generals Slocum and Sickles, with the 12th Corps and part of the 3d, reached the ground, and took post on the right and left of the troops previously posted.    Being satisfied, from reports received from the field, that it was the intention of the enemy to support, with his whole army, the attack already made, and reports from Major Generals HAncock and Howard, on the character of the position being favorable, I determined to give battle at this point, and early in the evening of the 1st issued orders to all corps to concentrate at Gettysburg, directing all trains to be sent to the rear at Westminster.    At eleven P.M., of the 1st, I broke up my headquarters, which, till then, had been at Taneytown, and proceeded to the field, arriving there at one A.M., of the 2d. So soon as it was light I proceeded to inspect the position occupied, and to make arrangements for posting several corps as they should reach the ground. By seven A.M., the 2d and 5th Corps, with the rest of the 3d, had reached the ground and were posted as follows: The 11th Corps retained its position on the cemetery side, just opposite the town. The 1st Corps was posted on the right of the 11th, on an elevated knoll, connecting with the ridge extending to the south and east, on which the 2d Corps was placed. The right of the 12th Corps rested on a small stream at a point where it crossed the Baltimore Pike, and which formed on the right flank of the 12th something of an obstacle.
[ newspaper clipping continued]  Cemetery Ridge extended in a westerly and southerly direction, gradually diminishing in elevation till it came to a very prominent ridge, called Round top, running east and west. The 2d and 3d Corps were directed to occupy the continuation of Cemetery Ridge, on the left of the 11th Corps. The 5th Corps, pending the arrival of the 6th, was held in reserve. While these dispositions were being made, the enemy was massing his troops on the exterior ridge, distant from the line occupied by us, from a mile to a mile and a half.    At two P.M., the 6th Corps arrived after a march of thirty miles, accomplished from nine A.M. the day previous. On its arrival being reported, I immediately directed the 5th Corps to move over to our extreme left, and the 6th to occupy its place as a reserve for the right. At three P.M., I rode out to the extreme left to await the arrival of the 5th Corps and post it, when I found that Major General Sickles, commanding the 31 Corps, not fully apprehending the instructions in regard to the position to be occupied, had advanced, or rather was in the act of advancing his corps a half mile or three quarters of a mile in front of the line of the 2nd Corps, on the prolongation of which it was designed his corps should rest. Having found Major General Sickles, I was explaining to him that he was too far in advance, and discussing with him the propriety of withdrawing, when the enemy opened upon him with several batteries on his front and his flank, and immediately brought forward columns of infantry, and made a vigorous assault. The 3d Corps sustained the shock most heroically.Troops from the 2nd Corps were immediately sent by Major General Hancock to cover the right flank of the 3d Corps, and soon after the assault commenced the 5th Corps most fortunately arrived, and took position on the left of the 3d.    Major General Sykes’ command immediately sending a force to occupy Roundtop Ridge, when a most furious contest was maintained, the enemy making desperate but unsuccessful efforts to secure it. Notwithstanding the stubborn resistance of the 3d Corps, under Major General Birney, Major General Sickles having been wounded early in the action, the superiority in number of corps in the enemy enabling him to outflank its advance position, General Birney was counseled to fall back and reform behind the line originally designed to be held. In the meantime, perceiving great exertions on the part of the enemy, the 6th Corps (Major General Sedgwick) and part of the 1st Corps (to the command of which I had assigned Major General Newton) particularly Lockwood’s Maryland brigade, together with detachments from the 2d Corps, were all brought up at different periods, and succeeded, together with the gallant resistance of the 5th Corps, in checking and finally repulsing the assault of the enemy, who retired in confusion and disorder, about sunset and ceased any further efforts.    On the extreme left another assault was, however, made about 8 P.M., on the 11th Corps, from the left of the town, which was repulsed with the assistance of the troops from the 2d and 1st Corps. During the heavy assault upon our extreme left, portions of the 12th Corps were sent as reinforcements. During their absence, the line on the extreme right was held by a very much reduced force. this was taken advantage of by the enemy, who, during the absence of Geary’s division of the 12th Corps, advanced and occupied a part of the line. On the morning of the 3d, General Geary, having returned during the night, was attacked at early dawn by the enemy, but succeeded in driving him back, and occupying his former position. A spirited contest was maintained all morning along this part of the line. General Geary, reinforced by Wheaton’s brigade, 6th Corps, maintained his position and inflicted very severe losses on the enemy. With this exception the quiet of the lines remained undisturbed till 1 P.M., on the 3, when the enemy opened from over one hundred and twenty-five guns, playing upon our center and left. This cannonade continued for over two hours, when our guns failing to make any reply, the enemy ceased firing, and soon his masses of infantry became visible, forming for an assault on our left and center. the assault was made with great firmness, being directed principally against the point occupied by the 2d Corps, and was repelled with equal firmness by the troops of that corps, supported by Doubleday’s division and STannard’s brigade of the 1st Corps.    During the assault both MAjor General Hancock, commanding the left center, and Brigadier General Gibbon, commanding the 2d Corps, were severely wounded.   This terminated the battle, the enemy retiring to his lines, leaving the field strewed with his dead and wounded, and numbers of     [handwritten notes on the margin of, page 51 appear to comment on and correct the newspaper clipping]    Lockwood’s MA Brig’d belonged to the 12th Corps, not to the 1st corps.  Williams’ Division went to the left, not Geary’s.  The whole corps fought on the right of the 3rd.
[newspaper clipping continued]  prisoners fell into our hands.    Buford’s division of cavalry, after its arduous service at Gettysburg on the 1st, was, on the 2d, sent to Westminster to refit and guard our trains. Kilpatrick’s division, that on the 29th, 30th, and 1st had been successfully engaging the enemy’s cavalry, was on the 3d sent to our extreme left, on the Emmitsburg road, where good service was rendered in assaulting the enemy’s line and occupying his attention. At the same time, General Gregg was engaged with the enemy on our extreme right, having passed across the Baltimore Pike and Bonaughtown Roads, and boldly attacked the enemy’s left and rear.   On the morning of the 4th, reconnaissance developed that the enemy had drawn back his left flank, but maintained his position in front of our left, apparently assuming a new line parallel to the mountain.   On the morning of the 5th, it was ascertained that the enemy was in full retreat by the Fairfield and Cashtown Road, and by the Emmettsburg and Monterey Passes.   The 5th and 6th of July were employed in succoring the wounded and burying the dead. Major General Sedgwick, commanding the 6th Corps, having pushed the pursuit of the enemy as far as the Fairfield Pass and the mountains, and reporting that the Pass was very strong - one in which a small force of the enemy could hold in check and delay for a considerable time any pursuing force - I determined to follow the enemy by a flank movement, and accordingly leaving McIntosh’s brigade of cavalry and Neil’s brigade of infantry to continue harassing the enemy. I put the army in motion for Middleton, and orders were immediately sent to Major General French, at Frederick, to reoccupy Harper’s Ferry, and send a force to occupy Turner’s Pass in South Mountain. I subsequently ascertained that Major General French had not only anticipated these orders, in part, but had pushed a cavalry force to Williamsport and Falling Waters, where they destroyed the enemy’s pontoon bridge, and captured its guard. Buford was at the same time sent to Williamsport and Hagerstown. The duty above assigned to the cavalry was most successfully accomplished, the enemy being greatly harassed, his trains destroyed, and many captures of guns and prisoners made.   After halting a day at Middletown to procure necessary supplies and bring up trains, the army moved through South Mountain, and by the 12th of July, was in front of the enemy, who occupied a strong position on the hights [sic] near the marsh which runs in advance of Williamsport. In taking this position several skirmishes and affairs had been had with the enemy, principally by the cavalry and the 11th and 6th Corps. The 13th was occupied in reconnoissances[sic] of the enemy’s position and preparations for an attack; but on advancing on the morning of the 14th, it was ascertained that he had retired the night previous by the bridge at Falling Waters and ford at Williamsport. The cavalry in pursuit overtook the rear guard at Falling Waters, capturing two guns and numerous prisoners. Previous to the retreat of the enemy, Gregg’s division of cavalry was crossed at Harper’s Ferry, and coming up with the rear of the enemy at Charlestown and Shephardstown, had a spirited contest, in which the enemy and driven to Martinsburgh and Winchester and pursued and harassed in his retreat.   The pursuit was resumed by a flank movement of the army, crossing the Potomac at Berlin, and moving down the Loudon Valley. The cavalry were immediately pushed into several passes of the Blue Ridge, and having learned from servants of the withdrawal of the Confederate army from the lower valley of the Shenandoah, the army (the 3d Corps, Major General French, being in advance) was moved into Manassas Gap, in the hope of being able to intercept a portion of the enemy in possession of the Gap, was disputed so successfully as to enable the rear guard with withdraw by the way or Strasburgh. The Confederate army retiring to the Rapidan, a position was taken with this army on the line of the Rappahannock, and the campaign terminated about the close of July.   The result of the campaign may be briefly stated in the defeat of the enemy at Gettysburg, his compulsory evacuation of Pennsylvania and Maryland, and his withdrawal from the upper valley of the Shenandoah; and in the capture of 3 guns, 41 standards, and 13,621 prisoners; 24,978 small arms were collected on the battlefield. Our own losses were very severe, amounting, as will be seen by the accompanying return, to 2,834 killed, 13,709 wounded, and 6,643 missing; in all 23,186.   It is impossible, in a report of this nature, to enumerate all the instances of gallantry and good conduct which distinguished such a hard fought field as Gettysburg. The report of the
[newspaper clipping continued]  corps commanders and their subordinates, herewith submitted, will furnish all the information on this subject. I will only add my tribute to the heroic bravery of the whole army, officers and men, which, under the blessing of Divine Providence, enabled a crowning victory to be obtained, which I feel confident the country will never cease to bear in grateful remembrance. It is my duty as well as my pleasure to call attention to the earnest efforts at co-operation on the part of Major General D.N. Couch, commanding the Department of the Susquehanna, and particularly to his advance of 4,000 men, under Brigadier General W.F. Smith, who joined me at Boonsboro, just prior to the withdrawal of the Confederate army.   In conclusion, I desire to return my thanks to my staff, general and personal, to each and all of whom I was indebted for unremitting activity and most efficient assistance. Very respectfully, your obedient servant,  GEORGE G. MEADE  Major General Commanding.  Brigadier General L. THOMAS, A.G, U.S.A.,  Washington, D.C.
[blank]
[ newspaper clipping]    AN OLD CITIZEN GONE. - John H. Stonebraker, Esq., an old and influential citizen of the township of Franklin, in this country, died on Friday last at his residence, from injuries he received some two weeks previously, by being thrown from his wagon. He was engaged in hauling wood at the time of the accident, and on going down a hill he was thrown out of the wagon, falling upon a stump, injuring him internally. Mr. Stonebraker was a highly esteemed citizen, and at the time of his death an aSsistant Assessor of U.S. Taxes. There is something remarkable in the death of Mr. Stonebraker, as it makes the third one of family who have been killed by accident, within the short period of two years. A cousin of Mr. S.’s, named Peter Gray, son of his mother’s sister, had his neck broken some time ago, and about one year since, Mr. William Hutchison, another cousin and son of another sister, was killed by the exploding of a threshing machine. Thus three sons of three sisters have met with violent deaths within a few years.
The Six,   Nord, Winnie, Rosella Wanetta, C.W., and L.S.   New Vienna Ohio.
June Received  $67.50 $chs  July  `` 74.25  Aug `` 74.25  Sept `` 74.25  Oct. `` 4.25 364.50    Nov. 30  Due $75.00  Dec. 31 `` 75.00      $150.00  Deduct Tax 1.50      $148.50    July, To Father $80.00 $chs  Aug. `` 20.00  `` Mother 10.00  Sept. Father 40.00  Oct. `` 50.00 200.00
[blank]
Oct. 13. Wrote to  Decatur  ``  18. `` `` Porter  ``  19. `` `` Annie  ``  23. `` `` Father  ``  24. `` `` Mother  ``  26. `` `` E.M.  ``  26. `` `` Decatur  ``  27. `` `` J.A.Y[oung].  ``  28. `` `` Decatur  ``  29. `` `` Porter  ``  29. `` `` Father  Nov. 6 `` `` Annie  ``  10. `` `` Decatur  ``  15. `` `` Mother  ``  17. `` `` Father  ``  20. `` `` Annie  ``  25. `` `` J.A. Young  ``  25. `` `` Marion  ``  26. `` `` John  ``  27. `` `` Annie  ``  30. `` `` Mother  Dec. 4 `` `` Warren  ``  5. `` `` Father.  ``  12. `` `` Marion.  ``  13. `` `` Nora & c.  ``  21. `` `` Mother.  ``  22. `` `` Young.  ``  22. `` `` Burgess.  ``  24. `` `` Decatur.  ``  25. `` `` Annie.  ``  26. `` `` Lizzie.
Army of the Potomac.  Commanded on Peninsula, and first Maryland campaign by McClellan; at Fredericksburg by Burnside; and Chancellorsville by Hooker; second Md. campaign & Gettysburg by Meade.
Dept. of the Cumberland  Maj. Gen. Solcum, Cmdg. 12th Army Corps.  Maj. Gen. Hooker, Comdg. 11th & 12th Army Corps.  Maj. Gen. Thomas, Comdg. Army of the Cumberland.  Maj. Gen. Grant, Comdg. Division of the Mississippi.  Maj. Gen. Halleck, Comdg. U.S. Army  Brig. Gen. A.S. Williams, Comdg. 1st Div’n 12th Corps.  Brig. Gen. J.W. Geary, Comdg. 2 Div’n, 12th Corps,
[back cover]
[photograph of Henry Warner Slocum]
Major Genl. H. W. Slocum, 1863    [printed text]  Brady’s National Photographic Portrait Galleries,  Broadway & Tenth Street  New York,  &  No. 352 Pennsylvania Av. Washington D.C.
